{"Andrew Foster: The Gallaudet of Africa": "Andrew Foster was born in 1925 in Ensley Alabama. When he was 11 years old he contracted spinal meningitis and became deaf. He attended the Alabama school for the colored deaf in Talladega and when he was 16 he went to high school at the Michigan school for the deaf. His family was deeply religious and he found his true calling, to become a missionary. Andrew wanted to become a missionary in Africa but he knew he needed an education so he wrote to Gallaudet college and they not only accepted him they gave him a full scholarship. He knew he wanted to better the lives of deaf people around the world and concentrated on the idea of Africa. Andrew Foster was the first black student to ever have been accepted. He graduated Gallaudet in 1954 and went on to receive two masters degrees one from Michigan State and one from Seattle Pacific University. Andrew wanted to become a missionary but they would not accept him because he was black. Andrew not only had to deal with people not understanding him because he was deaf but he also had to deal with the rampant racism in the United States at that time. Andrew decided not to wait for existing missionary groups to accept him he raise money and started his own missionary church. Andrew traveled for the first time to Africa in the remote country of Liberia in 1957.\n\nThe daily lives of deaf people in Africa was even worse than the United States. When he first arrived the African officials told him that deaf people did not exist in Africa. Many people believed that deaf children were cursed and parents would leave them in the wilderness to be eaten by animals. There was no education available for deaf children in Africa and many Africans believed that the deaf were unable to be educated. Africa was a poor country and they did not want to use what little resources they had to teach children many felt would never have a future anyway. Instead of building new schools Andrew worked hard building relationships with schools that were already open and during off times he rented out the school teaching deaf children. In the next 30 years Andrew foster would travel back and forth to Africa hundreds of times. He raised millions of dollars over the years. He opened up a total of 31 schools in 17 countries in Africa. Many have called Andrew foster the Gallaudet of Africa. He also opened churches, camps and teacher training facilities for the deaf. Many of these schools are still open today. In 1970 Gallaudet University honored Andrew with an honorary doctorate in humane letters. In 1987 Andrew was on a small plane traveling between schools in Africa when it crashed in Rwanda. Andrew was 62 years old. The mission he started in Africa is still going strong in his legacy lives on in the tens of thousands of deaf Africans who have him to thank for his lifelong effort."}
{"Sue Thomas: FB Eye": "Sue Thomas was born in 1950 in Ohio. When she was 18 months she became deaf. Her parents didn't notice at first but figured out there was something wrong when she didn't respond to their voices. The doctors said that nothing could be done to restore her hearing. Her parents were told she would never amount to anything and they should institutionalize her. Her mother and father made a lifetime vow to do everything in their power to enable her to become part of the hearing world as much as possible. They ignored the doctors and sent her to public school. Sue was the only child in her entire school district that was deaf. She was bullied at school and on the playground. She lived down the street from an ice skating rink. She worked hard on her ice skating and became the youngest Ohio state ice-skating champion in skating history. She used the vibrations from the ice and the walls to feel the music playing. Although she had success on the ice rink she was having a miserable time at school. She learned to speak by imitating the vibrations she felt when she put her hands on her speech therapist's throat while looking in a mirror to see this shape of her mouth as she spoke. She worked every day to master the art of lip reading. She sat in the front row and taught herself to read the lips of her teachers. Sue not only graduated from elementary school, and high school, she also graduated from college. Sue went to Springfield College in Massachusetts. Sue looked for a job for months after graduating from college. She finally found a job in the FBI taking fingerprints.\n\nOne day some of the agents were working on a case where the recording failed on the surveillance cameras. They asked her to come in and watch the tape and interpret it for them using her lip reading skills. She wrote down what they said. She became an expert lip reader for an undercover surveillance team in Washington DC. She worked for the FBI from 1979 to 1983. In 1990 Sue Thomas wrote her autobiography called Silent Night. The book was a huge success and in 2002 they based a television series on her book. The TV series was called Sue Thomas FB EYE. The actress Deanne Bray who played her in the television show was deaf. The television series brought greater recognition of the abilities of the deaf.  In 2001 Sue Thomas was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. She did not let it keep her down and she even wrote a book about her experiences called Staying in the Race. Sue Thomas is alive and well living in Vermont with her dog Katie. She is a sought after public speaker who promotes acceptance of people of all abilities."}
{"American Sign Language Study Guide": "Over 50 years, the deaf education in China has been implementing \"oral teaching\" model, through which the role of sign language in deaf education has long been neglected. As deaf schools do not provide relevant courses, sign language as a language is not in use at deaf schools In 1887, American missionary C. R. Mills has founded the first deaf school in Yantai waterfront of Yellow Sea, Shandong province\n\nhttp://www.newsigns.jp/fsle/china  helpful site for actual signs\n\n- American missionary named C. R. Mills supported his wife, Neddie Thompson, in the establishment of the first school for the deaf in China in Shandong in 1887\n\n- A second school opened in Shanghai in 1892\n\n- Most deaf children leave school with an education three grades lower than their hearing peers\n\n- In 2001 the Tianjin school for the Deaf adopted Chinese Sign Language as their main method of communication and made an effort to have deaf employees\n\n- Like most other sign languages, Chinese Sign Language is mostly conveyed through shapes and motions joined with facial expressions\n\n- within the character for deaf, , is the character , meaning dragon,\n\n- estimates say that there are around 3,000,000 deaf people in China\n\nChina is the world's most populous country, and also has the world's largest number of deaf population and deaf schools. Sign language has not yet become the communication and teaching language in deaf schools; Over 50 years, the deaf education in China has been implementing \"oral teaching\" model, through which the role of sign language in deaf education has long been neglected. As deaf schools do not provide relevant courses, sign language as a language is not in use at deaf schools. Meanwhile, deaf people cannot obtain the teaching certificate of national recognition. However, the situation is gradually changing. While 80 percent of deaf children receive an education now, many do not use standardized Chinese Sign Languagen the other hand, recent media attention has led to sign courses in universities, and a Deaf Pride movement has begun, so Deaf culture is now valued, and there are some new bilingual-bicultural schools.\n\nChinese Sign Language (CSL) has been developing mostly since the late 1950's and its signs are like written Chinese characters. In some ways, CSL is similar to ASL. The signs in CSL look like written Chinese characters which is similar to how the ASL manual alphabet looks like the written English alphabet. For example, the CSL sign for \"person\" looks exactly like the written Chinese character for \"person\".\n\nBecause Chinese is already a pictorial language, the connection between the written language and that of the CSL becomes tighter than even in ASL. For example, two index fingers pointing to each other, with the right index slightly higher than the left forming an inverted v, means person. This is because CSL has just signed the exact written Chinese character for person!\n\nThis restaurant's investor, Zhangping Sheng, told reporters that opening this restaurant was originally a way of giving his deaf son and people likeThe manager of the restaurant, Gao Cui, told reporters that it is first ever 'silent restaurant' to open in China. Of 30 staff members, 22 are deaf\n\nWith the merger, deaf pupils followed the same curriculum that of their hearing peers. However, in 1978, the Chinese Sign Section was phrased out. This phasing-out coincided with another important milestone in the school's history which was the introduction of Total Communication in 1977\n\nChinese Premier Wen Jiabao (L, front) communicates with deaf-mute workers with hand language at the Foxconn scientific and technical zone in Taiyuan, capital of north China's Shanxi Province July 5, 2009\n\nIn 1887, American missionary C. R. Mills has founded the first deaf school in Yantai waterfront of Yellow Sea, Shandong province. In 1949, before the foundation of New China, there were 42 schools for the deaf and blind, the majority of which are private schools, with the number of students exceed 2,380. After 1949, the state took over all the special education schools and hence special education started to develop steadily. Particularly in the late 20 years, China has made significant achievements in terms of the number of special education schools founded. On December 3rd last year, China officially announced the second national census of people with disabilities. The figures show that China now has 82.96 million people with disabilities, counting 6.34% of the nation's total population. Among them, 20.04 million are with hearing disabilities, and 1.27 million speech disabilities. China now has 644 deaf schools, with 120,000 deaf students studying in either ordinary schools or special education schools. Due to various reasons and some school-age deaf children did not enter schools."}
{"The Apes of the Caves": "When I was younger I was taken from my family and sent to a cold gray building in Washington State in the United States. I was devastated and scared. I felt so alone without my parents and my brothers and sisters. At least I had one brother with me. Without him I would've felt even worse. The scientist wanted me for an experiment to see if they could make me talk. I was the smartest of the 15 of us that they took from our home in Asia. I did not know the other apes very well at the beginning. We lived far apart in the forest. Weeks later when I started to understand what they were saying to me I said, hello I am an ape, and my name is Gerald. I didn't actually use words, but my hands, the humans call it sign language.\n\nYears went by and I became the head of the 15 original apes. I have a brother named Roy that helps me with my daily duties. Roy is smaller than I am so he can never be in charge. That's how it works with us, you have to be big to be in charge. Roys arms are smaller and his chest is less hairy than mine. My wife is named Lucy. Lucy is shy and timid around the humans but when we are alone she is a chatterbox. Lucy's hair is much longer than mine and has a red tinge in the fluorescent lights. The air inside never seems to circulate and is always too warm for us. The Institute smelled like the humans not like the forest where I am from. I missed the smell of earth and trees every day. There are 12 other apes who are my closest friends. We live at the Chimpanzee and Human Communication Institute in Ellensburg, Washington. The Institute is very close to Central Washington University. In 1924 there is a famous report of fighting between miners and the creature they later would name Bigfoot. I guess that was just us trying to escape the Institute.\n\nThe Central Washington University Chimpanzee And Human Communication Institute was set up as a sanctuary for chimpanzees to learn American Sign Language. The humans were very nice and humane in our treatment and they tried to improve our living conditions for captivity every day. There were only three people that we saw every day. One was an old man who always wore a hat and had hair coming out of his nose and ears. There was a tiny Asian woman who had short black hair and wore huge glasses that made her eyes look like fishes. The janitor was the third person we saw every day. He was fat and short and completely bald. The Institute was a great place for apes to live. Or at least that's what the brochure said that they sell in their gift shop. Chimpanzees are closely related to human beings and share 98.77% of the human genetic makeup. I guess it was the 1.33% that made us want to leave the Institute. The plan came together one day when a visitor to the Institute was talking to her friend and I overheard them. The bigger one said, I can't wait for our trip to the Ape caves in Amboy next weekend the shorter friend said, Is this it another place like this? Are their really apes there? The bigger lady laughed and said, I hope so the ones here are so cute.\n\nAfter that conversation that day I started to make a detailed plan with my other apes to go there. We started swiping maps from the tourist every time they came by and eventually found one that clearly said Ape Caves on Mt. St. Helens near Hill Bridge Rd., Amboy, WA. Now that we had an address and a map with directions we just had to get there. According to the map it was 184 miles away. The caretakers had no idea we knew how to use their computers and often left us alone with them. I Googled the directions and my wife Lucy started hiding food so we could take it on our long trip. Lucy was very sneaky. She was so shy that no one thought she would ever be brave enough to steal anything. That is why she never got caught, people underestimate Lucy all the time.\n\nLate one night we snuck out of our cages we used the sign language the humans taught us to communicate silently so we wouldn't wake up our caretakers. We snuck out of the Central Washington University's Chimpanzee and Human Communication Institute and never went back.\n\nAfter sneaking out of the University the fresh air outside was wonderful. We stuck closely to the main highway route out of town following the main roads until we could not see any buildings at all. The road noise frightened the younger apes. The cars and trucks were spewing foul-smelling smoke that made us ill. The first night was easy we were all so scared of getting caught that we just ran all night. We were galloping like horses. We followed the roads that the cars used so we wouldn't get lost, that was Lucy's idea, and it worked. There were 15 of us all together. All that running made us extra hungry so our food only lasted the first five days. The only thing I missed from the Institute was the smell of popcorn popping in the microwave. The janitor would sometimes feed me popcorn when nobody was looking. My son Roy wanted to steal from the humans and I told him I didn't want anything to do with humans ever again. I was going to teach them how to live off the land. I didn't know anything about living off the land but the nice lady that taught me sign language left her laptop open and I Googled it before we left. It was not a good idea to let the others know I did not have a clue how to be away from the Institute, it would just worry them.\n\nI learned years later that there was a famous report about a skirmish between miners and Bigfoot. We all laughed like hyenas about it. That was just us running away. We followed the Snoqualmie National Forest Road and came up upon a bunch of miners digging in a hole. They were pretty quiet for such big humans and we didn't see them right away. Once they saw us I think they were surprised as we were and we both ran away. Anyway I guess they told some newspaper people about it and people are still looking for us in the forest.\n\nWe had walked for weeks and were now following the National Forest Road 25. I had forgotten what real trees look like. Oregon had huge green trees with leaves the color of the sun. Some of the trees were tall and thin pine trees. My favorite trees were the ones filled with the delicious bugs to eat. The air was so clean and fresh outside I felt healthy and strong for the first time since we had arrived. Once we got to Route 90 at the Swift Reservoir my son Roy said, hey look up there I see a sign it says Ape Caves ahead follow Yale Bridge Road! Everyone was so excited they all started running. The sound of all of us running was deafening. The loud noises from our running made the birds fly away in every direction.\n\nThe Ape Caves were beautiful. We arrived in the middle of a sunny day. The outside of the caves were gray and brown with green foliage covering every inch. The air smelled like pine trees and sap. There were huge boulders that were gray with moss growing on them. The air seemed wet somehow even though it wasn't raining. When you breathe in the air you could almost drink it. We learned once we got there that the Ape Caves do not contain any other Apes at all. The Ape Caves are just a name humans gave the area. They are actually a two-mile long lava tube formed when Mount Saint Helens erupted about 2,000 years ago. I learned that from the information at the visitor center. The Ape Caves are one of the longest lava tubes in the world measuring 2.5 miles and are completely dark. The tour guide said that humans need to bring a very bright flashlight and the temperatures are in the low 40s, even in the middle of the summer. We had come so far and even though we were disappointed we went and explored the caves anyway. The caves were wet and cold. It felt like the temperature must have dropped 10 every few feet we walked. The glow of light from the outside went further and further away as we hiked in. The walls were smoothed and wet and smelled like rotting water. The water coming down the walls tasted like Earth and was very cold.\n\nMy wife Lucy said, I think I found a secret tunnel. We pushed through some heavy lava walls and sure enough there was a beautiful oasis right behind the dark walls. There were swinging trees and way off in the distance there was a pool of water. We could barely believe how lucky we were. It was so much warmer here in the oasis. The new oasis smelled like a warm summer day. We named our new home Chimp Haven. We worked really hard to build houses in the trees and gather enough berry bushes to plant food for many years to come. We pushed the secret door back and closed ourselves off from the humans forever. Many of the apes had children including Lucy and I. We built homes just like we had back in the jungles of Asia. Everybody had a job to do and we were busy all the time just trying to make a safe place to live together. I remained leader for 30 years until my son was old enough to take over the job. All of the original 15 of us and all of the new children born lived in the secret oasis for the rest of our lives. We promised each other that we would never allow our children to be taken by the humans the way we were.\n\nI don't blame humans for keeping us in cages and trying to teach us to speak. Some of the other apes were mad at the humans and wanted to go out and hurt them. I had to work hard to keep everybody calm. The Chimp Haven was home now and I had to teach them how to be happy there. I was mad at the humans too but revenge is a slippery slope. If we went after the humans our new home would be ruined. The humans outnumber us and eventually they would win any fight. The scientist and college kids were doing what they believed was right. Sometimes humans can be so stupid. Humans are always so convinced that they are at the top of the food chain when it comes to brains but let's face it, apes are much smarter. They were actually pretty nice to us, or so they thought, but we are much happier here in the Ape Caves of Washington in our beautiful oasis all together. Every once in a while one of us will go out and let the humans think they saw Bigfoot just for fun."}
{"Reflective Paper Antisocial Personality Disorder": "I learned a great deal about Antisocial Personality Disorder from this project. This project could have been significantly improved if I'd had a partner to help me. Because my partner did absolutely nothing I ended up doing everything for this project by myself. The good news is I learned a great deal about this disorder and I feel very confident about my presentation. Antisocial personality disorder has symptoms including ignoring social norms, repeatedly engaging in acts of vandalism, engaging in violence, and many other criminal behaviors. Other symptoms include lying often, impulsive behavior, aggressive behavior, mood swings, and the general disregard for their own or other people's safety.  The most important aspects of antisocial personality disorder that teens should be aware of include early warning signs and consequences from not receiving treatment when you are young. What alarmed me the most about this disorder is how common it is in boys. Some studies suggest that up to 20% of prison populations have antisocial personality disorder. If I were to do this project over again I think it would be interesting to look at both sides of this disorder. If I had to make a guess I would think that girls, as a group, probably have a greater percentage of people with antisocial personality disorder today then 20 years ago. You hear all the time about girl gangs, girls fighting and women going to prison in greater numbers. I think it would be interesting to do two presentations one on young men and one on young women to see how the growth of antisocial personality disorder has happened over the years.\n\nWhen I read about the symptoms of this disorder it reminded me of children I knew before I moved to Bainbridge Island. I think that there are also children right here in high school that have this disorder and I hope they get the help that they need. The good news about antisocial personality disorder is that it seems to get better over time. By the time people get into the late 40s the disorder is almost gone. There is also a great deal of benefit from taking anti-aggression medicine and anti anxiety medicine earlier in life. These drugs seem to help people control their impulsive aggressive behaviors. The school counselor is a good place for children to get help if they are uncomfortable talking to their parents about problems that they have. Only a psychiatrist can prescribe medication to help curb aggressive behavior. Getting in a group therapy situation has also been shown to be beneficial for teenagers especially. I understand teens are irresponsible and general but they usually feel bad for being so irresponsible. I think the big difference between normal teen behavior and antisocial personality disorder is the lack of remorse people feel for their actions when they hurt people. I believe people do not get help for their antisocial personality disorder they will end up on drugs or even in jail."}
{"Australian Deaf Culture": "In Australia sign language is called Auslan. There are only 30,000 Australians that are completely deaf. Only 6500 use Auslan as their primary language in Australia. Most people learn in school. Auslans status and recognition is growing.\n\nAuslan has a two-handed manual alphabet. It is very closely related to British sign language. Trevor Johnston coined the phrase Auslan. Auslan has been influenced by Irish sign language I SL and more recently has borrowed signs from American sign language ASL.\n\nThe first recorded deaf person in Australia was Elizabeth Steele in 1790. She was a convict from England, there is no evidence she used sign language. John Carmichael was the first person known to have used sign language in Australia. He went to a deaf school in Ireland and learned how to sign there.\n\nThe first deaf school in Australia was founded by Thomas Pattison. Deaf schools in Australia banned signing for much of the 20th century.  Auslan did not gain popularity in till the 1970s and 1980s in Australia.\n\nAuslan was not even recognized as a language at all by the Australian government until 1987. The emerging status of Auslan has gone hand in hand with the advancement of the deaf community in Australia. Because there is so little support from the government there is no standard dialect. Linguists often regard Auslan as having two major dialects Northern and Southern. The vocabulary of the two dialects differs significantly. There are different signs used for even the most common concepts like colors animals and days of the week."}
{"Boeing Union Issues": "There was a lot of information on the websites and in the news article about Boeings attempt to stop a South Carolina union from forming with the IAM. I have a fourth source of information closer to home, my aunt's new husband has worked at Boeing Everett for 20 years. He talks about the time period between 2007 and 2009 when Boeing first said they were going shopping for a new place to build their new plane. Nobody believed them they thought it was a tactic to scare the union into concessions in wages and overtime. It turned out not to be a tactic at all they actually moved and set up shop in South Carolina. There were people that he worked with that had the opportunity to either lose their jobs or move to South Carolina. Almost everyone chose to go to South Carolina instead of taking the pink slip. His job was more secure because he is part of the building electrician team not the airline electrician team. There are very few companies where an electrician can make $90,000 a year and have four weeks of paid vacation and 11 overtime holidays a year. He believes the union is the reason he has this type of life. He is quick to mention though that his union dues are almost $4000 a year. And when there is a large fight going on the union will take an extra $10-$100 because the union coffers are low and everybody has to pitch in even if they don't have the money to spare.\n\nReading the material the Boeing site is so much more professional and well put together then the IAM site. IAM could learn a lot from Boeing about how to put together information. The IAM union site looks more like an angry blog than a professional organization. The information gets thrown at you and sounds amateurish, not to mention difficult to read. I got to page 4 before I gave up and looked at other sources. On the other hand the Boeing site is clean and clear and sounds authoritative. I'm not sure who to root for in the fight. I feel both sides have profited on the backs of their employees. The union has made some real strides over the years to raise the salaries of their employees. Boeing offers jobs at a much higher rate than most of the private sector.\n\nBoeing is in for an uphill battle because South Carolina is a right to work state. A right to work state prohibits forced dues. And although collective bargaining is legal and gives extensive powers to the unions when the governor of the state is so against unions it would be difficult to find an outside arbiter to vote with the unions demands. And let's not forget that Boeing was so mad at the union in 2007 that they chose to build an entire plant in the middle of South Carolina instead of deal with the Washington IAM union. Boeing flexed its muscle then and they could do it again leaving an empty shell of a building in South Carolina and 7,500 employees hanging in the wind. Boeing is simply too powerful to go against. If I were South Carolina I would vote against the union and be thrilled I had a job."}
{"Reflection 2 Bright Lights, No City": "So far in the book they have not convinced too many people to get involved with their battery scheme. I really enjoy that they have not discussed how the batteries actually work yet. I looked it up on Google just because I was dying to know. I think that is an interesting writing technique, to leave your audience guessing.  The entire point of the book really is not about batteries, I think it is more about charity. There is only one line in the book explaining how much money Whit actually has. He and his partner sold Cranium to Hasbro toys for $75 million in 1990. He is a millionaire many times over but has not offered a single penny to the people of Africa. He truly believes in his endeavor to offer a step up instead of a handout. It is a radical idea, and one that is not catching on very quickly. Whit is married with children but spends a great deal of his time in Africa in tiny little villages trying to sell the idea of renting his rechargeable batteries for a dollar. It seems like an insane idea. I have no idea where this book is going but I like being along for the ride. When it is all said and done he better not be a snake oil salesman or I will be incredibly disappointed. This section of the book talks about a man making micro-loans in India and in parts of Africa for native people to start their own small businesses. You get a few more details of what it is like living daily in Ghana. There is no electricity in town. There are no telephones anywhere in town. There are very few businesses and people generally barter for what they need.\n\nMax Alexander makes some really interesting points about poverty, saying that the people are not really poor in this part of Africa. He describes being poor as a relative idea. The small villages are kept clean and tidy and everyone seems to have some sort of responsibility during the day. He said there were no children with big tummies starving to death in the streets or anything like that here so there really was not true poverty in this area. Both brothers seem to have other businesses going in other parts of the world and are very busy. You think they would be too busy to go to these tiny meetings under mango trees to try to personally sell their battery idea to local villagers 20 villagers at a time. Whit simply cannot let Ghana go and he continues to try and sell his batteries village by tiny village. The section of the book is about other people's experiences in Third World countries with capitalism instead of charity."}
{"American College Tuition is Too High": "College tuition and fees have increased 1120% since records began in 1978, far outpacing the price of inflation according to Bloomberg. The United States needs to find a way to make college more affordable for everybody. For millions of young people rising college costs are putting the American dream on hold or out of reach, the United States government needs to pay the full tuition for every high school graduate to go to college.\n\nMillions of kids are not attending college, not because they are unqualified, but because they simply cannot afford it. We need to further narrow educational inequalities by understanding that these inequalities exist. The income divide has received far less attention from policymakers and government officials than gaps in student accomplishment by race. Income, not race, is the real determining factor in higher education today. Families that earn in the top 25% of income in the United States send 80% of their children to college. Of the bottom 25% of income earners in the US less than 10% of the children go to college according to USA Today College Planner. Family income is the new predictor of a childs future achievement. Education should be the great equalizer in American society. Education can lift less advantaged children and improve their chances for lifetime success as adults. The achievement gap between rich and poor is the new racism in the United States. Over time, cultural and social differences combine to preserve privilege across many generations. Unequal school financing across school districts is also unfair. There are major advantages for students from wealthy families with more economic resources. Wealthy parents can invest more time and money in weekend sports, ballet, music lessons, math tutors and weekend SAT prep classes.\n\nAs a nation, we need more college graduates in order to stay competitive in a global economy. Based on economy and job projections calculated by Georgetown University, in 2018, 63% of jobs will require some college education or a degree (Orman 293). A whopping 85% of Forbes 2012 America's 400 richest people list were college grads. College graduation is better for society as a whole. People who do not go to college are significantly more likely to be unemployed placing an undue financial strain on society, making a college degree worth it to the taxpayers. In April of 2013 the unemployment rate for college graduates over 25 years old was 3.6% compared to 7.5% for high school graduates. The median income for families headed by a bachelors degree holder was $100,096 in 2011, more than double than that for a family headed by a high school graduate.\n\nYoung people not engaged in employment, education or training are called NEET by the US government. NEET are more likely to receive welfare, commit crimes, and receive public healthcare than other youth. The Minneapolis Star estimated that 7% of the US population is considered NEET youth in a 2009 article. In total, each NEET youth between the ages of 16 and 25 cost American society $51,350 a year, over their lifetime each will impose a financial burden of $699,770. The total cost to US taxpayers is $4.75 trillion dollars, which is comparable to half the US public debt. It simply makes financial sense for the US government to finance education for everybody.\n\nIn many countries college is simply free to attend. Germany, Finland and many other European countries, view higher education as more of a public than a private benefit. They can afford this by working adults paying higher taxes. For example, whereas in the US parents are expected to help pay for their children's college education, in Sweden parental income levels are just not part of the equation. Students are viewed as adults, responsible for their own finances. In Sweden, the entire system is aimed at severing the financial link between parents and young adults. While Swedish students do end up with debt, the monthly costs of carrying that debt are pretty cheap. It's about 3.8% of estimated average monthly income of new graduates. In other words, the Swedish system of student debt is financially manageable and sets students up to begin their lives as viable adults separate from their parents right after high school.\n\nBut it is important to remember that a high-cost, debt-based system was not always the norm here. In 1994 fewer than half of graduates borrowed for college compared to 7 in 10 graduates today. And in 1984 you could finance a years worth of tuition at a minimum-wage summer job according to a Boston Globe article titled College Debt at 60? But due to deep and unrelenting state budget cuts that time is over.\n\nCollege debt is crippling the nation. An advisory council to the Federal Reserve warned that the growth in student debt \"has parallels to the housing crisis\" (College Tuition in the U.S.).As of Jan. 2013, the rate of default on student loans hit 15.1%, a nearly 22% increase since 2007.Between 2003 and 2012 the number of 25-year-olds with student debt increased from 25% to 43%. Their average loan balance was $20,326 in 2012--a 91% increase since 2003. According to the US Congress Joint Economic Committee, approximately 60% of 2011 college graduates have student loan debt balances equaling 60% of their annual income. Student loan debt now tops credit card debt among Americans. High levels of debt are increasingly impeding young people from purchasing cars or homes and all the other trappings of adulthood.\n\nCollege is just too expensive. Prices are rising rapidly for higher education because of the predominant role of third-party payments including Federal student loans, grants, state government support for institutions and endowment income. When somebody else is paying the bills students are less sensitive to the price, allowing colleges to care less about keeping prices under control. Because universities are nonprofit in nature it reduces incentives for college and universities to be efficient (Marte 2). The government subsidizes education for many people already. The time is come from the American government to simply pay for every single high school senior to go to college. In the long run it will make the entire nation richer. The United States needs to make college not part of the American dream but part of the American reality. With American students, recent graduates, and their families staggering under a pile of debt it is becoming clear the US must change how it pays for college. If the US government pays for college, ending college debts, it is a solution for an age-old problem. It is society's way of financing a restructuring period for the currently unproductive assets it will depend on in the future: young people.\n\n\"...The richest nation on Earth has never allocated enough resources to build sufficient schools, to compensate adequately its teachers, and to surround them with the prestige our work justifies. We squander funds on highways, on the frenetic pursuit of recreation, on the overabundance of overkill armament, but we pauperize education.\" From a speech given by Martin Luther Kingon March 14, 1964, when he accepted the John Dewey Award from the United Federation of Teachers\n\nAilworth, Erin. \"Tuition Bills at 60? ; Nearing Retirement, Parents Are Paying off Kids' College Debt.\" The Boston Globe (Boston, MA). N.p., 13 Apr. 2014. Web. 16 May 2015.\n\n\"College Tuition in the U.S. Again Rises Faster Than Inflation.\" Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, n.d. Web. 16 May 2015.\n\n\"European Versus US Taxes.\" AmericaWakeUp. N.p., 14 July 2010. Web. 17 May 2015.\n\nEvans, Gareth. \"Fall in Number of Neet Young People.\" Western News. N.p., 16 Apr. 2014 Web. 18 May 2015.\n\n\"Finland College Graduation Rates.\" Education in Finland RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 May 2015.\n\n\"Germany College Is Free There Even For Foreign Students RSS Feed.\" Happy Holiday  The Labor Day, n.d. Web. 16 May 2015.\n\n\"Germany Extends Free College Education To All Students In The U.S.\" The Inquisitr News  N.p., n.d. Web. 18 May 2015.\n\n\"Last Year's Graduates Left School Owing an Average of $25,558.\" Star Tribune (Minneapolis MN). N.p., 2 Dec. 2009. Web. 18 May 2015.\n\nMarte, Jonnelle. \"College Debt Is Still Keeping Grads from Buying Homes.\" The Washington Post. N.p., 16 May 2014. Web. 16 May 2015.\n\nOrman, Suze. The Road to Wealth. Riverhead Books, 2013. Print.\n\n\"Project to Help NEET Youth Is Launched.\" Minneapolis Star. N.p., 7 May 2009. Web. 17 May 2015.\n\nRobinson, Mark. \"Where to Get a Free College Degree.\" CBSNews. CBS Interactive, n.d. Web. 17 May 2015.\n\nSchuman, Rebecca. \"You Can Now Go to College in Germany for Free, No Matter Where Youre From. Should You?\" N.p., n.d. Web. 16 May 2015.\n\nSwenzocki, Ann. \"Study in Finland.\" Higher Education in Finland. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 May 2015.\n\nTaylor, Adam. \"26 Amazing Facts About Finland's Unorthodox Education System.\" Business Insider. Business Insider, Inc, 14 Dec. 2011. Web. 17 May 2015.\n\n\"This Country Just Abolished College Tuition Fees.\" ThinkProgress RSS. N.p., 01 Oct. 2014. Web. 17 May 2015."}
{"Common App Honors and Activities": "Hey! So I've been working on the common app honors and activities section, trying to make myself appear as a committed leader without making any complete lies. I was wondering if you could read over what i wrote and tell me if it looks solid or what parts seem suspicious or read as BS to you. Sorry I know this is a very long post.\n\nHonors\"If you have received any honors beginning with the ninth grade or international equivalent, please indicate number of honors: 5 (the highest option allowed on the common app)Honors 1 title: Platinum Honors. Grade level 9. Highest level of recognition: SchoolHonors 2 title: Academic Achievement Award. Grade level 10. Level of rec: SchoolHonors 3 title: IASAS, Selected for International Basketball Competition. G10. InternationalHonors 4 title: U.S. History World Cup Contender. Grade level 10. Level of rec: SchoolHonors 5 title: Academic Letter. Grade level 11, 12. Highest level of recognition: School\n\nActivities in order of importance1. Science/Math. Position/Leadership: Math Club Lead, JSHS and SNHSParticipation grade levels: 9, 10, 11, 12. I intend to participate while in college: YesTiming of participation: School. Hours spent per week: 5. Weeks spent per year: 24Details, honors, and accomplishments: won second place in regional Math Club Competition2. Theater/Drama. Lead Actor, Sound Technician, Writer and Director. grades 9, 10, 11, 12I intend to participate while in college: Yes. Timing of participation: SchoolHours spent per week 10. Weeks spent per year 16. Details: Lead Actor of four school plays, won Most Creative Improv, gave work shop on Boleslavsky, wrote and directed a school play that won Audience Favorite3. Community Service (Volunteer). H4H Lead, Assistant Teacher, Coach and Referee.Participation grade levels: 9, 10, 11, 12. I intend to participate while in college: YesTiming of participation: Year. Hours spent per week: 4. Weeks spent per year: 15H4H Team raised over $10,000 for cement and bricks; Middle School basketball team I coached won first place in region4. Athletics: JV/Varsity. Basketball. Starter. Grades 9, 10.I intend to participate while in college: Yes. Timing of participation: SchoolHours spent per week: 10. Weeks spent per year: 24Won first place in ISAC regional competition; Lead scorer for Basketball Exchange5. Computer/Technology. Robotics Sumo Wrestling Team Captain. grades 10, 11, 12I intend to participate while in college: No. Timing of participation: School.Hours spent per week: 3. Weeks spent per year: 24.Won local robot sumo wrestling competition, joined Dead Robot Society in 12th grade6. Student Govt./Politics. Class President. grade 9I intend to participate while in college: No. Timing of participation: SchoolHours spent per week: 2. Weeks spent per year: 35I helped plan school events and organize fundraisers7. Work (Paid). U.S. Embassy in Kuala Lumpur Summer Intern. Summer before grade 11.I intend to participate while in college: No. 45 Hours spent per week. 8 Weeks per yearI completed a program in cyber security.8. Other Club/Activity. Forensics, International Club, NHS, Writer for Take. grades 11, 12.I intend to participate while in college: No. Timing of participation: School.Hours spent per week: 3. Weeks spent per year: 15.I continued writing for the student magazine Take in Malaysia even after moving to the United States.9. JV/Varsity. Track and field. High Jumper and Sprinter. Grade 12.I intend to participate while in college: No. Timing of participation: SchoolHours spent per week: 10. Weeks spent per year: 15.I plan on trying out for my schools track team.\n\nThen on the writing sections for Additional Information I wrote:\"Brief explanation on honors and activitiesIASAS: Competition where select students from international schools in Southeast Asia compete.U.S. History World Cup Contender: the best History students from my school are selected to compete for the History World Cup trophy.Academic Achievement Award, Platinum Honors, and Academic Letter: given to students based on academic performance.JSHS: Junior Science and Humanities Symposium - I was going to compete in Japan but it was cancelled due to the Earthquake.SNHS: Science National Honors Society.Theater: I plan to participate in college by auditioning for school plays.Basketball: I plan to participate in college in intramural/club basketball.Assistant Teacher: for Sunday School.H4H: Habitat for Humanity, where through various activities like golf tournaments, book sales, flea markets, and two 40 hour famines, we raised over $10,000 for cement and bricks to help build homes for those in need.Additions to my application that I'm sending include a science experiment proposition paper and a peer recommendation.\"\n\nThoughts?"}
{"Deaf Culture in China": "Deaf culture in China is very different then the United States. China is behind the United States in teaching sign language to its deaf population. China is the world's most populous country and has the world's largest deaf population. There are 3 million deaf people in China. Sign language has not become the communication and teaching language in many deaf schools until the last 20 years. Deaf education in China has been using an oral teaching model. Oral teaching is when you teach the deaf to mouth words. In 1887 American missionary CR Mills founded the first deaf school in Yantai China. There are now 644 deaf schools with 120,000 students.\n\nChinese sign language looks like the written letters. 80% of deaf children receive an education now. Many do not use standardized Chinese sign language. Standardize Chinese sign language is called CS L and it has been improving since the late 1950s. Most CSL signs look like written Chinese characters.\n\nIn some ways CSL is similar to ASL. CSL looks like written Chinese characters which is similar to how the ASL manual alphabet looks like the written English alphabet. For example the CSL signed for person looks exactly like the written Chinese character for person. Two index fingers pointing to each other with the right index slightly higher than the left forming an inverted V means person. This is because CSL has just signed the exact written Chinese character for person. Most deaf children leave school with an education three grades lower than their hearing peers. There are many similar signs,  female in CSL means birthday in ASL.\n\nDeaf culture is more accepted in today's China. This silent restaurant opened originally as a way for the owner to give his deaf son and people like him a place to mix socially. Of the 30 staff members 22 are deaf. Their hope is to give jobs to the deaf people in China.\n\nEstimates say there are around 3 million deaf people in China. In 2001 the Tianjin school for the deaf adopted Chinese sign language as their main method of communication and has made an effort to have deaf employees. Recent media attention has led to sign courses in universities and a deaf pride movement has begun. Deaf culture is now more valued in China and there are some new bilingual bicultural schools for the deaf."}
{"Dream Essay": "Did you know that in Washington State, our pets have the same rights as a chair or a desk or a rug? They have limited legal protection from their owners as they are considered property. It is my dream to restore dignity and basic rights to animals.\n\nSome years ago, my Dad found Jade, our wonderful family dog, chained to a tree, starving, shivering, ignored, terrified. He called the animal shelter and was surprised to find out that they were not breaking the law. He knew that he could not have them arrested because he could not prove the level of abuse needed under the law to prosecute these people for their treatment of this dog. What he could do was offer to freely remove the animal. If the owners agreed, he could take the animal away and the owners would lose all ownership from that point on in that animal. That's exactly what he did for Jade. Her owners did not want her. They agreed Dad could have her. Dad brought home a terrified little dog, who flinched from our touch, and when offered food, ate so rapidly she threw it up. It took time for our wonderful Jade to conquer her fear of people. Jade was a beloved member of our family for the next 14 years.\n\nSome owners drop animals they do not want off at shelters. On Bainbridge Island, we have a wonderful service called PAWS. PAWS goal is to providelow-cost spay/neuter and veterinary financial assistance for pets of low-income residents of Bainbridge Island and North Kitsap, a lost and found pet registry, and a pet adoption program. But volunteers at PAWS cannot enter homes and check for animal abuse. They cannot be responsible for hunting for abandoned animals that owners have dropped callously off in the woods. We need to help.\n\nThere are laws in Washington State regarding animal cruelty and they are clearly written and posted online. Animal cruelty can be either deliberate abuse or simply the failure to take care of an animal. We need to make sure that our eyes are opened to the signs of cruelty and empower the citizens of Bainbridge Island with the knowledge. The simple adage, see something say something, applies to both child abuse and animal abuse.\n\nWe, the people, need to stop the abuse.We can start right here, right now, on Bainbridge Island. We can use the schools and the newspaper to continually alert people to what is animal abuse, what they can do to help stop this abuse, how the law can help, and who to call. We can simply list the laws as provided for us online by the State of Washington legal system. Although that's a great place to start, we need to do more than that. We need to work to get unfair laws changed, the current laws that limit what the police and other government agencies can do to stop animal abuse. We need stronger, better laws. That is my dream and my goal. Martin Luther King said, Never, never be afraid to do what's right, especially if the well-being of a person or animal is at stake. Society's punishments are small compared to the wounds we inflict on our soul. When we look the other way."}
{"Dream Journal": "February 4\n\nI'm not sure if it's because we're reading a book about cooking but all night long I dreamt about food. My family and I got all dressed up for some reason and we went to Applebee's, I have no idea why we would be all dressed up in that Applebee's but it's a dream what can I say. We all were laughing and having a good time and the waitress stopped to drop off water and asked if it we wanted more time to look at the menus and my dad said no we don't need any more time 4 lava cakes please. And I said that's enough food for me would you guys can eat. And like 2 seconds later we had the world's greatest dessert to us. I ate mine in like four bytes and I looked up at dad and he laughed and he let me order 2 more just for me. Then out of nowhere I saw something black on the wall that looks kind of scary and the wall seemed to move like in Sherlock Holmes when he becomes part of the piece of furniture and you didn't realize he was painted like the chair and he was sitting there the whole time. That's what it was like but it was a man on the wall and he was the ninja. He was painted like the painting above him which was a painting of a pirate. So I guess you could say it was a pirate ninja. And I got scared and I looked over again and it turned out to be a really ugly person with a black do rag on his hair and it was not the ninja at all. That's the only dream I remember from last night.\n\nFebruary 5\n\nAll the girls are going crazy about the stupid Tolo dance at school and I dreamt that a really weird girl named Shelly asked me to the dance and I was stuck going because I was too embarrassed to say anything. At least that was a really quick dream I had another dream where I was driving a car really slowly in traffic. I was all excited because my parents let me take the car even though I was only 15 and I decided to go with this newfound freedom to Walmart to get chicken. Then my car kind of turned into that old Wii game Mario kart and I had all these power ups if I hit things once a topic started moving I could weave in and out of traffic and get power ups and I went faster and faster. And for whatever reason I had a big box of bananas and squids in my car and I threw bananas at other cars so they would look around in circles and then squids to blind them. That was a really fun dream of shows older so I could really drive. It would be great if the boring ride to Walmart had power ups in real life.\n\nFebruary 6\n\nI don't think I dreamed it all last night I was dead tired from working out, sorry.\n\nFebruary 7\n\nI dreamt about food again. That book like water for chocolate must really be inside my head. I had a frozen pizza for dinner and I was still hungry but I don't want to get big as a house so I didn't have anything after that and I went to bed. I dreamt that I went out for dinner with my friend Joe and weird things Happening in the restaurant all around us the guy next to us had his visa card declined and the lady across from us Pulling underbrush and brushing her hair and the guy on the other side of their restaurant was yelling at his wife's and it was a baby crying someplace the whole time. Is really uncomfortable and strange on that sure what was going on. After dinner we went and looked for a place to get ice cream but everything was closed so we ended up at Safeway and we bought a box of ice cream bars and sat in his bed truck and we ate them. The whole box is gone and we laughed because we're being such pigs. Later on that night I had another dream about the cake. I really want to go to Applebee's now get lava cake. I do remember the lava cake dream I just remember waking up and taking Yum I want a lava cake. It's weird how dreams work that way some are so clear and others you just remember little snippets and parts."}
{"Self-Verification and the Philosophy of Existence": "I am. If nobody else in the world existed I would have no need for a name I would have no need for words I would have no need for language. I only bother to identify myself as I relate to you. I am me because you exist and can seeming. I am the because other people exist. I am nothing but the reflection of myself I see off of you. I do not see myself I exist because of the way you see me. You do not need to knowledge my existence for me to exist. Not so that they think I'm a good person but so that I think they think I am a good person. I define myself on what I think you see me as and you define yourself as what you think I see you as. We never really know what other people see we never truly connect only our version of our connection is the reality that I see.  There is a theory that says something is solid because we haven't reached the level mentally or spiritually that would enable you to pass through it not because it indeed is impossible. What if a wall is solid because if I pass through the wall it would invalidate my own existence. The wall is solid I am solid the wall exist so I exist.\n\nSelf-verification theory [edit]\nMain article: Self-verification theory\n\nThis theory was put forward by William Swann of the University of Texas at Austin in 1983 to put a name to the aforementioned phenomena. The theory states that once a person develops an idea about what they are like, they will strive to verify the accompanying self-views.[28]\n\nTwo considerations are thought to drive the search for self-verifying feedback:[29]\n\nThese factors of self-verification theory create controversy when persons suffering from low-self-esteem are taken into consideration. People who hold negative self-views about themselves selectively seek negative feedback in order to verify their self-views. This is in stark contrast to self-enhancement motives that suggest people are driven by the desire to feel good about themselves.\n\nReflected appraisalsoccur when a person observes how others respond to them. The process was first explained by the sociologist Charles H. Cooley in 1902 as part of his discussion of the \"looking-glass self\", which describes how we see ourselves reflected in other peoples' eyes.[34] He argued that a person's feelings towards themselves are socially determined via a three-step process:\n\n\"A self-idea of this sort seems to have three principled elements: the imagination of our appearance to the other person; the imagination of his judgment of that appearance; and some sort of self-feeling, such as pride or mortification. The comparison with a looking-glass hardly suggests the second element, the imagined judgment which is quite essential. The thing that moves us to pride or shame is not the mere mechanical reflection of ourselves, but an imputed sentiment, the imagined effect of this reflection upon another's mind.\" (Cooley, 1902, p.153)\n\nIn simplified terms, Cooley's three stages are:[34]\n\nTo existentialists, human beingsthrough their consciousnesscreate their own values and determine a meaning for their life because, in the beginning, the human being does not possess any inherent identity or value. By posing the acts that constitute him or her, he or she makes his or her existence more significant.[2][3]\n\nUnderstand that other people are your mirror. A simple concept, yet one that many people are either unwilling, or unable, to grasp. Summed up, it is simply that other people reflect you. Your emotions, your traits, and your feelings are reflected back at you from other people either through in-kind responses or through predictable reactions to the emotions or feelings that you're issuing.\n\nHow can my thinking exist before my existence and cause my existence. Therefore, I must exist first, then I can think about I exist\n\nI am existing in this world, If my body physically is existing. For example, a person whose body functionally works but loss his conscious. He is still alive but he cannot think, we cannot say he is inexistent, because he is not dead. In other word, I can exist without I think, but I think cannot be without I exist.\n\nSouth African principle, ubuntu, or A person is a person through other persons. As Archbishop Desmond Tutu describes this perspective, ubuntu is not, I think therefore I am. It says rather: I am a human because I belong. I participate. I share. In essence, I am because you are.\n\nDeformed children were said to be possessed by evil spirits. The community only deemed it fit to kill the evil children. This tradition is still carried out in most parts of Ghana.\n\nHuman sacrifice has been practiced in various cultures throughout history. Victims were typically ritually killed in a manner that was supposed to please or appease gods, spirits or the deceased,\n\nIn ancient Japan, legends talk about hitobashira (\"human pillar\"), in which maidens were buried alive at the base or near some constructions to protect the buildings against disasters or enemy attacks,\n\nThe ancient Chinese are known to have made sacrifices of young men and women to river deities, and to have buried slaves alive with their owners upon death as part of a funeral service. This was especially prevalent during the Shang and Zhou Dynasties.\n\nJust as your thoughts about unicorns do not mean unicorns are real, your thoughts about yourself are nothing more than thoughts.\n\nPeople fed you lies. They fed you names and labels. Thoughts recursively became your thoughts. You are a creation of the mind.\n\nI need you, the reader, to imagine us, for we don't really exist if you don't.Vladimir Nabokov, Lolita\n\nYou can never know about about your own destiny: are the people you meet there to play a part on your oun destiny, or do you exist just to play a role in theirs?Libba Bray, Going Bovine\n\nDescartes in Meditation II concludes that he is in essence a thinking thing (res cogitans), and that it is possible that he exists without a body. He recognizes, however, that to conclude from this that his mind is really distinct from his body would be fallacious. The Stoic paradox of the masked man illustrates the fallacy. If a person sees their father, they will very likely recognize him. If the same person is then shown a masked man, they may doubt that this is their father. Still, the masked man might be their father. So, to conclude that the father and the masked man are really distinct because one cannot doubt in one case but can in the other is clearly fallacious. The case is precisely the same for Descartes in relation to his mind and his body in Meditation II."}
{"Independent Reading Journal prompts": "Indian philosophy Siddhartha is told by an omniscient third person narrator with frequent direct and indirect quotations of the words and thoughts of various characters, especially Siddhartha. The narrator, almost invariably, looks at things from Siddhartha's perspective A mystical and lyrical book, Siddhartha is a beautiful story of a truly personal quest towards the self-fulfillment we all must strive to attain\n\nSiddhartha's life takes him on a journey toward enlightenment. Afire with youthful idealism, the Brahmin joins a group of ascetics, fasting and living without possessions. Meeting Gotama the Buddha, he comes to feel this is not the right path, though he also declines joining the Buddha's followers. He reenters the world, hoping to learn of his own nature, but instead slips gradually into hedonism and materialism. Surfeited and disgusted, he flees from his possessions to become a ferryman's apprentice, learning what lessons he can from the river itself. Herman Hesse's 1922 Bildungsroman parallels the life of Buddha and seems to argue that lessons of this sort cannot be taught but come from one's own struggle to find truth. But several years of prosperous worldly existence dilutes his intellectual acuity, numbs his senses, breeds tremendous ennui, and leads to a spiraling recrudescence of petty and diluting human emotions. His flight from that comfortable living, his meeting with his son (begottten of Kamala) who he is unable to relate to\n\n2.Describe an important character: their appearance, actions, ideas, thoughts, and interactions with other characters. The primary theme of Siddhartha is the individual's difficult and lonely search for self-fulfillment. Both the means used by the hero in his quest and the nature of his fulfillment are of prime importance and reflect recurring themes that thread their way through all of Hesse's work. A second important symbol in Siddhartha is that of the smile. The characters in the story who attain a final state of complete serenity are each characterized by a beautiful smile reflecting a peaceful and harmonious state of being. Siddhartha's time with the Buddha is very important since he (Siddhartha) realizes that True Knowledge cannot be communicated, and that it has to be experienced, that it cannot be taught by a teacher or written down in a book; it has to be a lone spiritual journey undertaken by the individual soul itself. Siddhartha spurns the Buddha's spirited following and embarks very determinedly to immerse himself in worldly experience\n\n3.Describe the setting, time period and geographical region.The novel takes place inancient Indiaaround the time of the Buddha (6th century BC). It starts asSiddhartha, a Brahmin's son, leaves his home to join the ascetics with his companion Govinda. The two set out in the search of enlightenment. Siddhartha goes through a series of changes and realizations as he attempts to achieve this goal.It begins with Siddhartha's royal birth in India in the Sixth Century BCE into a Brahmin's life of privilege and wealth, continues through Siddhartha's traditional discovery of poverty, death, disease and pain as he wanders outside the royal estates, and his consequent desire to conquer or somehow come to terms with what he sees, things he had been sheltered from since birth. Thus we have the fundamental tenant of Buddhism: Life is suffering. The scene where the young Siddhartha confronts his father and stands up all night to show his resolve is one of the greatest \"coming of age\" scenes ever written.\n\n4.Analyze a conflict, life experience or turning point that has a major effect on them. Siddhartha's life takes him on a journey toward enlightenmenthow can the protagonist attain a state of happiness and serenity by means of a long and arduous path? lessons of this sort cannot be taught but come from one's own struggle to find truth. Siddhartha insists upon the right to choose his own path to fulfillment. Hesse's protagonist, however, seeks his own personal path to fulfillment, not someone else's. It is one of trial and error and he is only subconsciously aware of its nature\n\nfasting and living without possessions. Meeting Gotama the Buddha, he comes to feel this is not the right path, though he also declines joining the Buddha's followers. He reenters the world, hoping to learn of his own nature, but instead slips gradually into hedonism and materialism. Surfeited and disgusted, he flees from his possessions to become a ferryman's apprentice, learning what lessons he can from the river\n\n5.Describe the similarities in themes or content between the book you read and another youve read recently.How do the approaches differ? The story is the classic journey, both outward into the world and inward into the soul. Siddharta is reared in wealth and priviledge and yet like many insightful persons, recognizes that this is a fragile and illusory reality and social class construct. He breaks with his father, an act that all of us must underdo to became truely individuated adults. Gifted with male beauty, intelligence, and warm charism, Siddharta makes his way into the world. He joins wandering ascetics and masters hunger and cold. He becomes a hedonist and lover to a beautiful woman while becoming a successful merchant. These were not wasted years. In fact, Siddharta learned deep lessons in his soul through his love-making. He learns the mystery of becoming one with another body during passion. But he also learns that worldly sexual love fades and attachements are hard to break. He becomes a ferryman, gaining wisdom from the tides and river banks.\n\n6.The ending:how does the author finish the book?What effect does the ending have on the reader (you)?How does the ending compare to another book youve read? Although he is confused, he still managed to find peace from the river. He decided to learn and become \"one\" with the river. He became a ferryman who guides others across the river and gives advice to others from the lessons he learned from the river. The story ends with Siddhartha finding the peace that passeth all understanding, learned from a simple ferry boatman as he listens to the timeless voice of the river as it flows, expressing all that is or has been or will be fasting and living without possessions. Meeting Gotama the Buddha, he comes to feel this is not the right path, though he also declines joining the Buddha's followers. He reenters the world, hoping to learn of his own nature, but instead slips gradually into hedonism and materialism. Surfeited and disgusted, he flees from his possessions to become a ferryman's apprentice, learning what lessons he can from the river the river is an age-old symbol of eternity and spiritual communion. A mystical and lyrical book, Siddhartha is a beautiful story of a truly personal quest towards the self-fulfillment we all must strive to attain\n\n7.Comment on what youve learned from reading this book.\n\nHerman Hesse's Siddhartha is one such soul who was born with an \"unquenchable thirst\" - in his own words - to know and realize the meaning of life. Even his early childhood years are spent with an acute suspicion and later - a deep belief that there is more to life than just what one sees, eternal Truth beyond the \"Maya\" or illusory world of sensory and sensual experience, or even differently put, that realization of the True Self is the ultimate goal of a human being.\n\nAlthough Siddhartha listens with great respect to the words of Buddha and does not reject Buddhism as being right for others, he, himself, does not become Buddha's disciple, but decides to pursue his goal through his own effort, not by following a teacher The most important aspect of Siddhartha's growing awareness, however, is an unselfish and undirected love. he character of Siddhartha himself. Hesse has created a seeker who is a real life hero: kind, brave, strong of will and decisive, intelligent, modest, confident, honest, hardworking, unprejudiced, self-questioning and sometimes self-doubting, somebody we can identify with and admire."}
{"Ralph Waldo Emerson Nature": "Quotes I connect with:\n\nNature can change with your moods if you're happy nature can show you happy.  If your sad nature can show you what is sad. Everything and nothing exists in nature. What you look for in nature is what you will find. If your desire to be alone and be sad in your thoughts, nature can provide that for you. If you are happy and just got a new job someplace wonderful you can go out into nature and you will see the light, flowers and happiness in nature as well. He believes that children appreciate nature more than adults do because they can appreciate the simplicity of nature.\n\nHe said he could only try to figure out who you really are as a person by realizing you are just a particle of dust in the vast landscape of the world. To live in harmony inside of yourself you need to live in harmony with nature. I think he is comparing nature to being a kind of God. He says that nature is nothing but sees everything, just like God would. In nature he believes you return to a perfect state of mind using all of your reasoning and faith that God gave you. Nothing horrible can happen to you in the wilds of nature.\n\nYou may be able to lie to yourself about what's going on in your world but you can't lie about nature because it sees everything. I believe this goes along the same line of reasoning as the quote before it. Nature is like a God that sees everything so don't even bother to live in nature because nature can see right through your lies.\n\nA few quotes I don't understand:\n\nEnvoy means an author's concluding words. So I am not sure if he is saying that every day is the end of a book or an end of the story maybe? Or he might be trying to say that the brilliance of the stars is accessible to everybody whether you're smart or stupid young or old everybody can see the night sky no matter who you are or where you live. Everybody gets to see the same stars and every day is a new beginning or fresh start. The night sky, even though you can see it, you can't get to it.  It is inaccessible. There is something new to discover every day and every night just by looking around.\n\n\n\n\n\nI feel like he is going against his whole argument that nature is bigger than we are. I feel like this quote says that we must live in nature but ultimately man has the power to rule over nature not the other way around. I believe this goes against everything he said earlier in the same writing. I am trying to look at it from his point of view maybe he means that by working together man and nature are somehow stronger than just man or just nature by itself.\n\n"}
{"Notes on the Rising Cost of College": "About 900 undergraduate or graduate degrees are offered exclusively in English, with courses ranging from engineering to social sciences. For some German degrees, you don't even have to formally apply.\n\nIn fact, the German government would be happy if you decided to make use of itshigher education system. The vast degree offerings in English are intended to prepareGerman students to communicate in a foreign language, but also to attract foreign students, because the country needs more skilled workers.\n\nDenmark also has universal free education, and provides a monthly stipend\n\ntem Sweden devised to pay for higher education. For example, whereas in the US parents are expected to help pay for the their children's college education, in Sweden parental income levels are just not part of the equation. Students are viewed as adults, responsible for their own finances. As a result \"levels of student support are based on students' own income, rather than that of their parents,\" wrote analysts in a white paper on the system. Compare that to countries like Germany, where any aid from the state agency that doles it out, known as BAfG, is premised on parental income. In the US it's the same deal. In Sweden, the entire system is aimed at severing the financial link between parents and young adults. This is the key. While Swedish students end up with relatively high levels of debt, the monthly costs of carrying that debt are pretty cheap. (It's about 3.8% of estimated average monthly income of new graduates, according to one study.) Interest rates are low. They're set by the government and maintained through subsidies. And the length of repayment is long: 25 years or until the student turns 60. In other words, the Swedish system of student debt is financially manageable and sets students up to begin their lives as viable adults separate from their parents.\n\nCompare that to the US system, where high levels of debt are increasingly impeding young people from taking on the trappings of adulthood. A recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York found those with student debt retreating from purchases of cars and homes, for example.\n\nWith American students, recent graduates, and their families staggering under a growing pile of debt, it's becoming clear the US must change how it pays for college. The Swedish-style, state-led solution will be a nonstarter in the US of A. But the Swedish system helps clarify exactly what student debt is about. It's not just a method of paying for books and professors. In a broader sense, student debt is just our solution for an age-old problem. It's society's way of financing a restructuring period for the currently unproductive assets it will depend on in the future: young people.\n\nhigher education and not go bankrupt? Where is the money coming from?Even before this news, Germany had extremely low tuition and feesaround $600 per student. In other words, around $14,000 less than what students here have to pay. Germany, and many other European countries, view higher education as more of a public than a private benefit. They can afford this for a couple reasons. First, they simply agree to pay higher taxes. Second, Germany has a lower percentage of students go on to college than we have here in the U.S. Here, particularly at public schools, college costs have risen as a response to lower levels of public support from states, and increasing numbers of students going to school.\n\nBut its important to remember that a high-cost, debt-based system was not always the norm here. Just 20 years ago, fewer than half of graduates borrowed for college (compared to 7 in 10 graduates today). And just 30 years ago, you could finance a years worth of tuition at a minimum-wage summer job. But due to deep and unrelenting state budget cuts, inadequate grant aid, and poor targeting of some of the subsidies we do provide, that time seems as foreign as Germanys system does today.\n\nhttp://www.attn.com/stories/211/how-does-germany-afford-free-tuition-all-its-citizens\n\nhttp://news.yahoo.com/bernie-sanders-plan-free-college-could-end-racial-213253089.html"}
{"Everyone Should Have a Say in Their Own Destiny": "In an ideal world, I believe it is good to allow each person in a group to express their point of view. There are times when it is unrealistic. In an emergency, it is not always possible to take the time to include everyone in the decision-making process. During emergencies, like the wildfires in Central Washington last year, decisions had to be made quickly. There was not enough time to allow each person involved in the situation a chance to express his or her point of view on what was happening.\n\nI believe it is necessary and good to allow each person in a group chance to express their point of view. I have learned a great deal from listening to other peoples opinions, even if I don't necessarily agree with them. I really find it interesting to hear how cultural differences paint people's view of what's going on. I believe if we devalue people's opinions and ideas eventually they will stop are talking. If this happens, the only opinions that will be heard will be from the people who yell the loudest. In group projects at school I have found that sometimes the shyest and quietest person in a group may be the smartest. As a society, I believe we should listen to everyone's opinion because it is morally the right thing to do.\n\nRealistically, there are some instances where it is dangerous to take the time to ask how everyone feels about a particular situation. During emergencies, like the wildfire that burned over a hundred square miles south of Wenatchee, Washington in June of 2013, there were very few decision-makers. Firemen worked on a plan to stop the fire before it reached a wind farm near Vantage, Washington. The fire burned three homes and several outbuildings and 60 residents were evacuated. Because of the unpredictable nature of fire many people were evacuated, whose homes ended up not even burning. During the Central Washington fire, the officials in charge, put firefighter safety before the needs or feelings of the people who were being evacuated. I feel they made a good decision that probably saved many lives.\n\nI feel every person in society matters. When many people express their point of view, everyone can learn a great deal. During an emergency it is not only unrealistic but also unwise to take the time to ask everybody his or her point of view. In the long run it probably saves lives having an authority figure in charge during emergencies."}
{"Siddhartha: Journal Prompt": "The theme of Siddhartha is about looking both inward and outward to find the meaning in your soul and in life. This theme in Siddhartha is very similar to the theme in the novel, The Raven Boys. In the novel, a character named Gansey is also searching for meaning in his life. The main character in the book is very similar to Siddhartha. Both of the characters grew up in wealth and privilege. Both characters look for more meaning in their privileged lives. They both look for something that they did not already possess that money cannot buy. Ganseys goal was to find a supernatural being near his school. Siddhartha's goal is to find enlightenment in his life. Both characters are very similar in that they are obsessed with these goals, and nothing else in their life seems to matter, including their own comforts.\n\nGansey lives in a cold warehouse surrounded by filth and dust. Siddhartha lives with the wandering group of philosophers surrounded by disease and death. In both of the books the author never really explains why they need these things. Most people would be happy with their wealthy, comfortable lives. Both characters have something internal inside of them that makes them go down this path and leave everything else behind. Gansey surrounds himself with people he can trust and they help him with this search. Siddhartha takes a very different path, and although his friend goes with him on the wandering trip, he is generally alone in the book. Siddhartha has to find his own way inside of his own mind."}
{"Siddhartha: Journal Prompt": "The novel Siddhartha takes place in ancient India, around the time of the Buddha in six century BC. In the first part of the novel Siddhartha lives in comfort as the son of a wealthy Brahmin. In India a Brahmin's life comes with privilege and wealth that Siddhartha feels is in the way of finding peace and enlightenment. He goes against his fathers wishes and decides to give up all of his comfort and worldly possessions to find enlightenment. Siddhartha decides to go into the forest and become a Samana. Siddhartha leaves his home and begins to wander walking through India. Siddhartha gives away his clothes. He only has a loincloth and a crude cloak to wear. He never cooks food, and eats only once a day in the beginning. He discovers poverty, death, disease and pain as he wanders away from his wealthy upbringing. He has been sheltered from since birth from the pain of poverty in India all around him. He discovers that life is suffering. Siddhartha fasts for weeks at a time and lives without any possessions. He begs for food along the way.\n\nAfter three years in the middle of the book he decides to reenter the world and live in a city. We meets a beautiful prostitute named Kamala. Siddhartha begins working in a business for Kamaswami. He started working in his business so he could bring money to Kamala. He then surrounds himself with material possessions, but he finds that they do not make him happy or enlightened. Siddhartha once again leaves all of his possessions behind to become a ferryman's apprentice. By the end of the book he has learned that the river can teach him enlightenment and fulfillment. By the end of the book he is a ferryman, and he has found inner peace, not from other people, but looking inside himself."}
{"A Math Genius Born Too Early": "My grandmother, Dorothy Joneselli, was brought up one mile from Purdue University. She believes if she were born a man she would have been a famous mathematician. Dorothy was the eighth woman ever to graduate from Purdue University. She was the first female math major. Women did not have very many opportunities in the forties and fifties and she never had the opportunity to show off how smart she is.\n\nThe early years were spent in West Lafayette, Indiana. Dorothy Joneselli was born in 1922 but her parents dropped the elli from her last name and she went by Dorothy Jones. She grew up in a large white farmhouse next to a huge cemetery. She had a brother and a sister that died young of the flu. She loved school and never got a B. Her high school and elementary school were held in the same building. The school was small but held many kids. She loved the library and read every book she could. She still loves to read today. There was only one regional school for all grades. It was very progressive and classes were taught by professors from Purdue University. Girls were not allowed to play sports in the schools, but she was President of the Math Club. Dorothy earned perfect grades and got into Purdue.\n\nGrowing up in Indiana was hard. Farming was difficult and many farms failed. Her father failed at being a farmer and following in his fathers foot steps became a mortician. The family owned the large cemetery next to the farm. In the area of Indiana Dorothy grew up in had two kinds of people, poor people who had working farms and the rich people that went to Purdue University. She talked about farming problems during the early years in great detail. It seemed to her that everyone had a farm and none of the farms were successful. Later in her teen years many people branched out into other business ventures because their farms were broke. The Great Depression had a hold of the United States and almost half of the population was unemployed at some point during 19291939.\n\nDorothy and her parents were poor and ashamed of being Italian. There were very few Italians living in the area so they had no support for their Italian heritage. Her parents went out of their way to disguise their ethnicity. They found it would aide their business to be American. They went to church every Sunday, even though her family was not religious, in an effort to fit into the community. They did not tell anybody they were Italian. Some close friends of theirs knew but not many. She did not celebrate any Italian holidays because most of the holidays revolved around religious beliefs. Her family had zero friends who were Catholic so they went to a non-denominational Christian church. Her father and mother, both spoke Italian only when they didnt want her to understand what they were saying. The only reason she learned to speak Italian at all was Dorothys husband wanted her to take it in college. Even though her parents were fluent she actually took it as a class at Purdue. Her family made her lie about where they were from. They took every opportunity to hide their Italian heritage. They even pretended to be Norwegian when people asked.\n\nGetting into Purdue University changed everything for her. She went to Purdue and graduated with honors in 1944. She only had two classes with a total of four other women in four years. She was the 8th woman ever to graduate from Purdue. It made her work harder in school being with so few women. She wanted to prove women were just as smart as the male students, if not smarter, and it drove her to get her degree in Mathematics. Purdue had a great influence on her life and she always dreamed of going. Her mother told her to study hard and she would talk her father into paying for it. She had clear goals about school. She wanted to become an Aerospace Engineer. In that time you needed a math degree to go into that field.\n\nThe college years had huge milestones for Dorothy. She was married in 1941 to a near stranger named Michael Scalzo and World War II had started. The war and marriage changed many of her dreams. Most of the college-aged men were drafted into service for WWII including her husband. During the war suddenly everything became in short supply. Things like meat and soap were impossible to get and she sold her rations to buy other items that she needed. During the war Ration Coupons were given to everybody to use at the grocery store in exchange for food or personal items. Ration Coupons were bartered just like cash back then. Her husband Mike was from New York. He was Italian and her family picked him out because he was also going to Purdue and also liked math. They had never met him either. Her father knew his uncle. She married Mike Scalzo after knowing him for only two weeks.\n\nIn those days women married very young and generally had kids right away.  My grandmother felt she was lucky to start college without being married yet. Nearly all of her girlfriends from high school were already married and had a few kids before she graduated from college. If you had money back then your family could buy your way out of going to war but they were poor so he had to go. She had graduated college before he did so she felt she should have been able to support both of them when he came back from the war, but that did not work out. There were not too many opportunities for jobs for women.\n\nThe realization that even with a degree from one of the best colleges in the United States was not enough for a woman to get a job in the 40s really hurt her. She was furious when Mike got his first engineering job. It was a job near campus that she had applied for. The man told her it was not for the faint of heart. Her husband had not yet graduated with his degree and was offered the job. She was more qualified than he was for the position. At that time in this country, jobs for women were limited to nursing, secretaries and teachers. She applied for at least 40 jobs and did not get a single offer. She eventually gave up and decided to be a math teacher. She hated being a teacher, but it was the only job that she could find. She taught for three years then quit and had kids. She liked working with the students, but it was never her dream job. She wanted to work in the Aerospace Engineering field.\n\nShe had two children name Lin and Jean and became a housewife for the next twenty years. She never wanted to be a housewife. Sexism was not illegal until the 1970s. Women still do not make as much money as men doing the same job. She would have been really successful in business if she were born today. In the 1940s and 1950s nearly all the jobs were for men only.\n\nHer life now is centered around reading and puzzle books. Grandma Scalzo lives in Ocean City, Maryland. She likes to do math puzzles and surf the Purdue University Alumni websites. Grandpa Mike died about ten years ago. She enjoys spending time with her five grandkids when they visit.\n\nGrandma Scalzo is a genius. She could think circles around the men in her generation but they were too old-fashioned to think a woman could ever be smarter than them. She can count five decks of cards. When she works her way up to six decks she is going to Vegas to break the bank at blackjack. I feel lucky to have her genes in my blood but we are not very much alike because unlike me, my grandmother is a genius."}
{"The Farm Bill": "What is the Farm Bill? The farm bill is the legislation related to agriculture in the United States covering government policies and it is renewed every five years. It is divided into titles. In 2014 the Farm Bill had 12 titles like trade nutrition credit etc.\n\nBriefly, what is the history of the Farm Bill? The Farm Bill was created in 1933 in the agricultural adjustment act and provided subsidies to US farmers because of the Great Depression. The government paid farmers to stop producing seven main crops because they wanted to decrease the supply and increase the price\n\nWhen and how is the Farm Bill created? The Farm Bill is created through a bunch of meetings in Congress that last two or three years. They meet with farm lobbyist and civil society organizations and conduct town hall meetings to get input from the community\n\nWho are the main players in the Farm Bill? The main players are the US government, special interest groups environmental groups and of course farmers.\n\nHow much does the Farm Bill cost and where does this money go/what is it spent on? In 2014 the Farm Bill cost 489 billion in mandatory spending over the next five years. The nutrition program accounts for 80% of the spending, crop insurance 8%, conservation 6% and commodity programs 5%. The remaining 1% is for her role development for energy and livestock\n\nFor this last question, do some quick research and come up with a list of the ways that U.S. agriculture policy impacts the rest of the world. See how many you can come up with.\n\nAn even development and unsustainable use of natural resources\n\nworsening impact of climate change\n\ncontinued poverty & continued malnutrition\n\npoor food quality & poor diets\n\nfood responsible for the increase of chronic diseases like obesity and heart disease\n\nloss of biodiversity\n\nwater availability\n\nempowering marginalized stakeholders\n\nthe rising cost of fossil fuels in developed countries\n\nsmall farmers not benefiting from global trade\n\nremoving trade barriers on products for which they have a competitive advantage\n\nlowering tariffs on imports of processed commodities\n\nimproving access to export to markets\n\nWhat is the Farm Bill? The Farm Bill is comprehensive legislation that covers most federal government policies related to agriculture in the United States\n\nBriefly, what is the history of the Farm Bill? I'm created in 1983 because of the Great Depression. Franklin D is a belt created in the agricultural adjustment act. It provided subsidies to US farmers in the midst of the Great Depression. The government paid farmers to stop production of seven crops known as commodity.\n\nWhen and how is the Farm Bill created? Upon Bill comes up every five years. Congressman negotiate what goes into the bill. It last many years. Discussions began in the House and Senate agricultural committee. The White House and the Department of agricultural make their own plans to revise the Farm Bill and there are hearings held in the cultural committees.\n\nWho are the main players in the Farm Bill? Farmers, members of government, special interest groups, industry groups including the Farm Bureau, the national winegrowers Association and more. Congress and other committee members negotiate. Senate committee members on hunger nutrition and their arms are involved. Members of the House-Senate appropriations committees\n\nHow much does the Farm Bill cost and where does this money go/what is it spent on? In 2014 the farm bill provided for hundred and 89 billion in mandatory spending over the next five years. Nutrition grams or 80% of spending, crop insurance with 8% of spending, conservation a 6% of spending, commodity programs for 5% of spending and the remaining 1% included other programs\n\nFor this last question, do some quick research and come up with a list of the ways that U.S. agriculture policy impacts the rest of the world. See how many you can come up with. Find areas provide important habitat for wild plants and animal's, farming presents the greatest two species and ecosystems, pollution, I'm a change, genetic erosion, soil erosion, soil degradation, wasteful water consumption, land conservation and habitat, rise in food ices it acting the poorest people, food aid comes in various forms and is criticized for benefiting donors and their interests were the recipients, poverty maintaining because of food aid is destructive on the economy and contributes to our hunger and poverty in the long-term, cheap food below-market prices undercuts local farmers cannot compete are driven out of jobs, obesity, fertilizer getting into the water, large amounts of algae and fungus, industrialization creates too much food, biodiversity, deforestation, genetic engineering, urination, pesticides, waste, sustainable agriculture."}
{"Football Essay": "Discuss an accomplishment or event, formal or informal that marked your transition from childhood to adulthood within your culture, community, or family.\n\nOne of the greatest accomplishments of my high school career is when I simply gave up in my junior year. I have played football since I was five. My family never pushed me into doing anything I chose football on my own and stuck with it for the next 11 years. I have been on many teams and had varying degrees of success through the years. Once I entered high school the game became a very different beast.\n\nFreshman year was a blur of activity. Football practices until late in the evening and studying till midnight started to take its toll. My family's expectations were flawless straight A's across the board. School came first second and third and if I wanted to stay in football I had to carve out studying time whenever I could. Football is a cult and the games were the highlight of most people's weeks. Long after football season ends there are informal practices that every player is expected to be at five days a week and most Saturdays all year long. Sophomore year I joined National Honor Society with my nearly 4.0 GPA and expected the coach and the rest of the kids to be thrilled for me, not so much.\n\nI missed a practice late in September because there was a huge geometry exam the next day. I missed again the next week to take the AMC Math Competition Test. The coach made a big speech to everybody about prioritizing their lives, it would not be the last time I heard this particular speech. Sophomore year at high school was more academically difficult and required more time for study. I gave up many nights of sleep to keep my high GPA. By the end of sophomore year I had scheduled myself for very difficult classes for my junior year and I honestly did not think there were enough hours in the day for study and 35 hours of football practice six days a week. I talked to the other players and they chose easier classes so they would have more time to play. I could not believe that was even an option. I gained 40 pounds and 6 inches and was an easy pick for varsity starter by the end of my sophomore year.\n\nJunior year began and I went to the coach personally to talk. I planned to say I would try to make as many practices that I could but I would certainly miss some. I received a tougher version of the prioritize your life speech and I knew he was right, so I quit. I prioritized school, learning and my future in computer science and math. I prioritized books and the National Honor Society over parties and victories on the gridiron. I thought I would be emotional and upset, but honestly I was just excited about my future. It is my senior year I have a 3.8 GPA from the toughest school in the state and I have never looked back."}
{"Greek Gods & Goddesses": "Write a short description of the following: what theyre famous for, powers, symbols, family history, adventures, &/or inventions, etc. (2 points each, 34 details each)\n\n1. Zeus is the king of gods. Zeus is the ruler of Mount Olympus and the God of the sky, whether, thunder, lightning, law, order and fate. He became king by throwing over Cronus. He is depicted as an older man with a beard. He carries a royal scepter and a lightning bolt. He is the youngest son of Cronus and Rhea.\n\n2. Demeter is the goddess of agriculture, harvest, growth, grain and nourishment. She is the daughter of Cronus and Rhea and the sister of Zeus. She is the mother of Persephone. She has power over the life cycle of plants. She is depicted as an older woman with a crown. Her symbol is the cornucopia and a winged serpent.  She is the goddess who deals with the passage of the human soul through life and into the afterlife after death.\n\n3. Hades is the king of the underworld and the dead. He is also the God of the Earth's hidden wealth including agricultural produce and precious metals. His lover is Persephone. He carries a drinking horn, a cornucopia, a key, a scepter and has a three headed dog named Cerberus. He is the son of Cronus and Rhea. He has sovereign over one of the three realms of the universe, the underworld.\n\n4. Poseidon is the God of the sea, rivers, droughts, floods, earthquakes and the creator of forces. He is known as the Earth Shaker. He is the son of Cronus and Rhea. He is the brother to Zeus and Hades. He rules one of the three realms of the universe as king of the sea and the water.   He is depicted as an older man and with a large build and he holds a Trident. His Roman counterpart was Neptune.\n\n5. Athena is the goddess of intelligence, warfare, battle strategy, handicrafts and wisdom. She was born from Zeuss head. When she was born she was dressed in armor. She is depicted as wearing a crown, wearing an aegis over a dress and holding a spear. She is a patron of heroes. The city of Athens Greece was named after her.\n\n6. Aphrodite is the goddess of love, beauty, and desire and pleasure. She was married to Hephaestus although she had many lovers. Some of her lovers included most notably Ares, Adonis, and Anchises. She was depicted as a beautiful woman and of all the goddesses most likely to appear nude or semi-nude. Poets praise the radiance of her smile and her laughter. She was considered the ideal beauty.\n\n7. Hermes is the God of boundaries, travel, communication, trade, thievery, trickery, language, writing, diplomacy, and athletics.  He is the son of Zeus and Maia, Hermes is the messenger of the gods. He also led the souls of the dead into the afterlife. He was depicted either as a handsome and athletic beardless youth, or as an older bearded man. He was often depicted as carrying the herald's wand or caduceus, winged sandals, and a traveler's cap.\n\n8. Ares is the God of war, bloodshed and violence. He is the son of Zeus and Hera. He was depicted as a beardless youth, either nude with a helmet and spear or sword, or as an armed warrior. He was sometimes portrayed as moody and unreliable. He often represents the chaos of war. His sacred animals are venomous snakes and boars.\n\n9. Persephone was the daughter of Zeus and Demeter. Persephone was abducted by Hades who had come for her in a chariot. Hades took her down to his kingdom and tricked her into eating pomegranate seeds. Because she ate the pomegranate seeds she had to spend part of her life with Hades. She is sometimes called the Queen of the Underworld. Because she is so sad during her time with Hades the earth experiences winter. When she leaves Hades the earth has its spring. She is often called Kore, the maiden.\n\n10. Prometheus is a Titan and a culture hero. He is a trickster who created man from clay. He stole fire in defiance to the gods and gave it to humanity. When he gave fire to man it enabled them to progress and become a civilization. He is known for his intelligence and as a champion of mankind. Prometheus was punished by Zeus for stealing fire. He was bound to a rock and an eagle ate his liver every day and it would grow back every day so the eagle would come the next day and eat it all over again as his punishment.\n\n11. Icarus is best known for his attempt to escape from Crete by wearing wings his father made for him from feathers and wax. He flew too close to the sun and the melting wax caused him to fall into the sea where he drowned. The sea where he fell is named after him, the Icarian Sea. This is taken as a tragic example of failed ambition. He is seen as a mythical pioneer in Greece's attempt to conquer the sky. The Hellenic Air Force Academy is named after him.\n\n12. Heracles is often called Hercules. He is the son of Zeus and Alcmena. Hercules has many adventures and mythological stories. The labors of Hercules are tasks that the Oracle of Delphi sent him on. They include, killing the Nemean Lion, a monstrous feline, killing the multi headed hydra, bringing back a ravaging deer, catching a boar, cleaning out the massive stables of Augeas, scaring off and killing the metal feathered Stymphalian birds, capturing the Cretan bull and moving then releasing the man eating Mares of Diomedes. Still today when someone is very strong we call them Hercules.\n\n13. Hephaestus is the crippled God of fire, metal working and crafts. He is the son of Hera. He is the husband of Aphrodite. Aphrodite cheated on him all the time. He was usually depicted as a bearded man with a hammer and an anvil. Among his creations was the armor of Achilles. Hephaestus used the fire of the forge as a creative force.\n\n14. Cronus  envied the power of his father, the ruler of the universe, Uranus. His mother was Gaia. His mother gave him a sickle and he castrated his father with it. After he did this he became the ruling Titan. His wife was Rhea. Their children were the first of the Olympians. Cronus ate his children when they were born. Rhea tricked him into swallowing a rock instead of Zeus. When Zeus grew up he defeated him and banish them to the underworld.\n\n15. Gaea or Mother Earth, was the great goddess of the early Greeks. She represented the earth and was worshipped as the universal mother. In Greek mythology, she created the entire universe. She also gave birth to the first race of gods called the Titans. She then gave birth to the first humans. Mother Earth made the starry heavens in the form of the sky God Uranus. She created the mountain's, planes, seas and rivers that make up the earth. She is the oldest of the gods of the early Greeks. She presided over marriages and oaths.\n\n16. Hera is the queen of the heavens and goddess of marriage, women, childbirth, heirs, kings, and empires. She is the wife of Zeus and daughter of Cronus and Rhea. She was usually depicted as a regal woman in the prime of her life. She was often shown wearing a diadem and veil. She was also shown holding a lotus-tipped staff. Although she was the goddess of marriage Zeus made her mad by cheating on her. Zeus drove her to become vengeful and jealous. In Rome she was known as Juno.\n\n17. Hestia is the Virgin goddess of the hearth, home and chastity. She is a daughter of Rhea and Cronus. She is the sister of Zeus. She was often depicted as a modestly veiled woman. Her symbols are the hearth and kettle. She gave up her seat as one of the 12 Olympians. Her counterpart Vesta, however, was a major deity of the Roman state.\n\n18. Daedalus was also known as Daedalos, meaning \"clever worker\". He was a skillful craftsman and artesian. He is first mentioned by Homer as the creator of a wide dancing ground for Ariadne. He created the labyrinth on Crete where the Minotaur was kept. Today when objects are finely crafted they are called daidala after him.\n\n19. Apollo is the God of light, music, arts, knowledge, healing, plague and darkness, prophecy, poetry, purity, athleticism, manly beauty, and enlightenment. He is the son of Zeus and Leto, and the twin brother of Artemis. As brother and sister, they were identified with the sun and moon; both use a bow and arrow. Apollo was depicted as a very handsome, beardless young man with long hair and an ideal physique. As the embodiment of perfectionism, he could be cruel and destructive, and his love affairs were rarely happy. His attributes include the laurel wreath and lyre. He often appears in the company of the Muses.\n\n20. Artemis is the Virgin goddess of the hunt, wilderness, animals, young girls, childbirth and plague. In later times she became associated with the moon. She is the daughter of Zeus and Leto, and twin sister of Apollo. She was often depicted as a young woman dressed in a short knee-length chiton. She was depicted holding a hunting bow and a quiver of arrows. She can often be seen with hunting spears, animal pelts surrounded by wild animals.\n\n21. Uranus means sky or heaven. Uranus was often referred to as Father Sky. Uranus was the son and the husband of Gaia. Gaia was mother Earth. Some myths say that his father is actually Aether. Uranus and Gaia were the parents of the first generation of Titans. The Titans were the ancestors of most of the Greek gods. In Roman mythology he was called Cael.\n\n22. Atlas was the son of Iapetus. His brothers were Prometheus and Epimetheus. Atlas fought with the other Titans supporting Cronus against Zeus. Cronus's was very old so Atlas lead the Titan's in battle. Zeus was so mad at him that he punished him by making him carry the entire world on his back. He is the titan of astronomy and navigation. Atlas was the son of the Titan Iapetus. The Atlas Mountains in Africa were named after him.\n\n23. Rhea is the Titaness daughter of the earth goddess Gaia and the sky god Uranus. She is known as the mother of the gods. The Greeks saw her as the mother of the Olympian goddesses and the gods in her own right. The Romans identified her with Magna Mater.\n\n24. Core/Kore is the maiden, she is also known as Persephone. She is described in number nine.\n\n25. The Minotaur was a bullheaded monster. He was the child of Queen Pasiphae of Krete after she had been with a bull. The Minotaur lives in a labyrinth, a twisted maze. He was offered regular sacrifices of young people which he ate.  He was eventually destroyed by the hero Theseus. The Minotaurs' proper name Asterion, \"the starry one,\" suggests he was associated with the constellation Taurus.\n\n26. Extra credit god/goddess/or hero Minos was a king of Crete. He was the son of Zeus and Europa. Every nine years, he made King Aegeus pick seven young boys and seven young girls to be sent to the labyrinth, to be eaten by the Minotaur. After his death, Minos became a judge of the dead in the underworld. The Minoan civilization of Crete has been named after him. Minos wanted to be the king of Krete. He said that the gods had chosen him and to prove it he would show them that whatever he prayed for would come true. He prayed for a ball to appear from the sea and he promised to kill it when it appeared. Poseidon did send to him a bull and he was a ruler because of it.  Poseidon was angry that the bull was not killed and turned the bull wild. Poseidon tricked his wife Pasiphae to have sex with the bull and she gave birth to a half bull named Minotaur. Minos hid the Minotaur in a labyrinth."}
{"This Is Your Brain on Football": "Paul Solotaroffs article from Rolling Stone was incredibly interesting to read. I have some personal insight into football injuries because my brother Skyler played until this year on the Bainbridge Island high school football team.\n\nSkyler chose not to play this year for handful of reasons but the biggest reason is the play until it hurts attitude of the JV conditioning coach Tracy. Skyler was not a very good player and saw very little action on the field. Coach Tracy used that as an excuse to use Sky as a punching bag for his first string players. It was a common occurrence for the scrubs to be put in positions where the larger varsity players could pummel them daily.\n\nBainbridge Island is not even a competitive football dynasty school like ODea. In some parts of the country football is fanatically followed at every level from peewees up to professional NFL players. Yet even in sleepy little Bainbridge Island one fanatical, sadistic, volunteer football coach can put the very life of my brother in jeopardy.\n\nSkyler and I both played in peewees when we were little. Once the real hitting started at about age 11 it stopped being fun and we both quit. Skyler and his best friend Joe both joined the football team in ninth grade. There was very little talent on the team and the coach was very nice so he was relatively safe in ninth grade. In 10th grade so few children went out for the football team that the varsity ended up playing the JV players all the time and Skyler had his first view of what the next football season would look like. It was last season he would play.\n\nSolotaroff make some great points in his article. I especially like the part where grown-ups are making decisions about the risks that they are taking on themselves for their children. Both of my parents would have been very happy with Skyler joining the chess club and were actually pretty disappointed he decided to play a contact sport where he could be hurt. So my parents weren't pushing him to do anything hard but we saw plenty of parents pushing their kids way beyond their abilities.\n\nBecause so few children played football our starting running backs were all freshman this year. Ninety pound weakling's going against the monsters of ODea is sad to watch, and kind of scary. In the story the parent of the child who died is understandably shaken yet even after his death they almost sound proud that the National Honor Society student and homecoming King was so tough. Nathan Stiles and Eric Pelly both complained about headaches and you have to wonder how shortsighted a parent would have to be to even consider putting their child in a game when they don't feel well. After reading the article you could explain it away by the narcissistic attitudes of parents wanting their children to be the next big NFL star and simply not understanding the risks.\n\nThe article ends on a horrifying note with the New Jersey hockey player who had received a concussion and the father who insisted she returned when the doctors cleared her with a great quote about her toughing it out. It makes you just want to wring his neck. I love the lack of foresight and the generalized stupidity of this man. I have to assume that his goal is for his child is to receive some sort of scholarship for college because, of course, there is no professional women's field hockey team out in the real world. If that really is his goal, than he is a moron. Let's do the math.\n\nAccording to NCAA.com there are 271 college women's field hockey teams. Of the 271 colleges only 29 offer scholarships based on women's field hockey. Of the 29 teams only six of the schools offer scholarships of more than $5000 for women's field hockey. Of the six schools that offer scholarships of more than $5000. Over half of last year's recipients were from outside of the United States in 2012. If there are 23 people on a team and NCAA regulations say that only six can receive scholarships the math works out to a total of 78 scholarships a year that are more than $5000. NCAA.com reports that there were 61,471 high school varsity field hockey players in 2012. So the question this idiot father must ask himself, is your daughter one of the 78 best field hockey players in the United States? Were on a roll here so let's keep going with this fun math. Even if his daughter was one of the best 78 players she would only receive $5000 a year for four years equaling $20,000. This of course assumes that she never gets hurt and has to drop out of playing for any other reason. If she instead used her big brain and studied in high school instead of letting it leak out of her ears by playing field hockey she could've increased her GPA and received merit money based on her high GPA that would be significantly more than $5000 a year. Not to mention if she hadn't played a sport at all and her parents hadn't spent all that money on equipment, away games, hotel and travel expenses, playing fees, coach fees and uniform fees her parents could've socked away all that money in a savings account and saved more than $20,000. Math doesn't lie.\n\nI believe Solotaroff had a great idea for an article I just think it would have been more effective if instead of talking about one or two children who died of concussions it talked about the culture of fanaticism that allowed them to die in the first place. The culture in the United States that values the excitement of Friday night lights more than a lifetime of earning power and family connections that your child can bring you.\n\nI can't remember where I read it but I recall once reading that you are more likely to become a surgeon then you are to play a single down in the NFL. Not become a superstar, not become Marshawn Lynch, but just to play one single down of professional football. I for one would rather my children become surgeons."}
{"Howie the Hero Elf": "Bainbridge Island has a fantastic sense of community, tradition, and it is a unique and wonderful place to live. Each December when driving through the downtown corridor on Winslow, for the last 40 years you can count on seeing twinkling stars and scrolls and holiday lighting overhead. But the holiday lights and traditions on Bainbridge Island, along Winslow Way nearly did not happen this year. People often do not realize how much work goes into that one-mile drive through town and take for granted that every year twinkling lights will be back up, as if some magical elf does it in the middle of the night. That magical elfs name was Bob. Bob Cederwall died suddenly November 27th. He was only 68.\n\nFor the past 40 years, Bob Cederwall and a group of close friends have volunteered to decorate downtown. His friends knew him as Bainbridge Bob He was a tree cutter by day and an actor by night. His sudden passing, five days before the lights were to go up downtown, took everyone by surprise. There were no elections or deep discussions about what to do next. His group of closest friends all looked to one man named Howie Paine to keep this amazing tradition going.\n\nHowie had been involved for years being a volunteer helper for Bob, but with five days notice, he felt unqualified to take over as leader of the group. It was not a job he wanted. This group of volunteers unanimously crowned the new Bainbridge Howie downtown decoration king. But the crown sits uneasily on his head for his dear friend had to die for him to wear it. Howie called their group FOB or Friends of Bob community tree decorators. They started out the Sunday following Bob's death by decorating a community tree on Madrone Lane. The tree was a spectacular tribute to Bob and all he has given the community over the years. Bob's wife Denise wanted to make this an annual event, so Howie said: I'll pencil it in the next 10 years. Howie and the rest of the Friends of Bob group, with no backup plan, left at dawn the next day and decorated downtown. He was not alone. There were many volunteers, including the fire department, and many elves helping. Howie told me: I was by no means all alone, I had to rouse some people from their sleeping beds at 4AM and they came begrudgingly, but they came. Our reluctant local hero, Howie, saved the magical holiday season.\n\nHowie remained true to the design Bob had laid out earlier in the year except for one small addition. Howie added one new light display at the end of Winslow Way,a small heart with Bob's name in the middle, as a reminder of a friend lost. There were hundreds of lights on every tree and beautiful scrolls down light poles. With the influx of cash from the Rotary, the light display was even bigger and better than last year. It would be a great shame if such selfless hard work and determination went without genuine acknowledgment for his efforts. Howie himself would surely blow off any thank you's. He turned me down six times for this interview before finally relenting to answer my questions. Howie simply stated: Bob was great. He did everything; he set down the blueprint and we followed it. That's it. Howie would take no credit for the beautiful lights, saying that it was a group effort and that he is certainly no hero. Every happy child that drove through downtown or walked down the sidewalks would disagree. I am not sure how the newspaper got a picture of Howie, holding the heart illuminated with Bob's name, I have yet to snap a picture that he has agreed to of him with his beautiful lights downtown. Howie has a gruff nature that belies his obvious tender heart and kind and giving nature. Howie Paine is a true hero of Bainbridge Island."}
{"Classic Piece of Poetry for World Culture Project Japan": "Ariwara no Narihira was a traditional Japanese poet who lived from 825880 A.D. He wrote part of the Kokinshu, which is one of the most influential Japanese poetry compilations done at the Imperial Emperor Udas request. This style of poetry would eventually turn into the traditional Japanese haiku. This famous collection of Japanese poetry divided itself into seasonal and love poems. The collection took many years to put together and was published in 905 A.D. Ariwara no Narihira was one of four court poets who wrote the entire collection. Traditional Japanese poetry was written as a result of a collaborative process with two or more poets contributing verses to larger volumes of work. One would begin by composing the beginning line, often in the form of what we now call haiku, and then another poet would finish with a stanza. Ariwara no Narihira was quite famous for his work in the bottom section of the Kokinshu.\n\nIf, in this world of ours\r\n               All the cherry blossom\r\n               Disappeared\r\n               The heart of spring\r\n               Might find peace.\n\nHad I not come today,\r\n               Tomorrow, in a blizzard\r\n               They might be falling.\r\n               Not to melt away, but,\r\n               Would they still seem the flowers?\n\nSoaked through, and\r\n               Heedless of it, I plucked this:\r\n               For this year\r\n               Spring, is all but\r\n               Gone: or so I felt.\n\nIf well planted,\r\n               And Autumn came not\r\n               Would it still bloom-of course, it would!\r\n               And the flowers scatter\r\n               Were it to wither to the root?\r\n               Impassionate gods have never seen such Tatsuta River, crimson that flows above, the water below\r\n               Ariwara no Narihira\n\nThis poem is part of the collection in autumn. It can also be considered a love poem. It sounds as if he is writing about the scenery of autumn but it has a much deeper meaning. The poem is about a passionate love that had faded over time, like autumn. But the love is still there shining red like leaves hiding the flowing water underneath. Crimson symbolizes the red leaves that hide the water, or the passionate love, just under the surface. The imagery is quite vivid and incredibly sensual in nature, once you understand what the writer is actually talking about.\n\nYou can infer many things about the Japanese culture from this piece.\n\n*The Japanese place a high value on appreciating nature.\r\n               *Cherry blossoms are still incredibly popular for spreading romance in Japan.\r\n               *The Japanese value modesty and talk about passion in terms of sweet ideas like flowers blooming, instead of vulgar representations.\r\n               *In 868 A.D. The Japanese put a great deal of money and time in developing poetry about beauty and nature, while other countries were still trying to agree on an alphabet.\r\n               *You could make a living in Japan 250 years ago by writing poetry. The Japanese value the creative arts.\n\nThere are many revealing connections between Issun-boshi, the one inch samurai, and these traditional Kokinshu poems written much later. Issun-boshi appreciated everything he had in the world and was grateful for his surroundings and nature even though he was so small it was difficult for him to make his way in the world. There are common themes in Japanese folks tales. One of the most popular is that people who are good and appreciate what they have will get their wishes. Another theme is that the accomplishments of chosen people are incredible and they achieved almost every task they try, like heroes. The old woman in the story loved and appreciated her life but wanted a child to share with. Because she was such a good woman she got her wish. Another factor that is similar in both the poems and the folktale is that elderly people are well thought of. In the poems people living in the autumn of their life find love and passion. The poem says, If well planted and autumn came not would it still bloom -of course it would! This section is talking about finding love later in life by having faith that it will come just like the elderly couple had faith that they would have the child. A great love of nature and appreciation for everything you have on earth including beautiful flowering trees and autumn leaves or in Issun-boshis world a used bowl to go down the river and find his way in the world."}
{"Dream Essay": "Did you know that in Washington State, our pets have the same rights as a chair or a desk or a rug? They have limited legal protection from their owners as they are considered property. It is my dream to restore dignity and basic rights to animals.\n\nSome years ago, my Dad found Jade, our wonderful family dog, chained to a tree, starving, shivering, ignored, terrified. He called the animal shelter and was surprised to find out that they were not breaking the law. He knew that he could not have them arrested because he could not prove the level of abuse needed under the law to prosecute these people for their treatment of this dog. What he could do was offer to freely remove the animal. If the owners agreed, he could take the animal away and the owners would lose all ownership from that point on in that animal. That's exactly what he did for Jade. Her owners did not want her. They agreed Dad could have her. Dad brought home a terrified little dog, who flinched from our touch, and when offered food, ate so rapidly she threw it up. It took time for our wonderful Jade to conquer her fear of people. Jade was a beloved member of our family for the next 14 years.\n\nSome owners drop animals they do not want off at shelters. On Bainbridge Island, we have a wonderful service called PAWS. PAWS goal is to provide low-cost spay/neuter and veterinary financial assistance for pets of low-income residents of Bainbridge Island and North Kitsap, a lost and found pet registry, and a pet adoption program. But volunteers at PAWS cannot enter homes and check for animal abuse. They cannot be responsible for hunting for abandoned animals that owners have dropped callously off in the woods. We need to help.\n\nThere are laws in Washington State regarding animal cruelty and they are clearly written and posted online. Animal cruelty can be either deliberate abuse or simply the failure to take care of an animal. We need to make sure that our eyes are opened to the signs of cruelty and empower the citizens of Bainbridge Island with the knowledge. The simple adage, see something say something, applies to both child abuse and animal abuse.\n\nWe, the people, need to stop the abuse. We can start right here, right now, on Bainbridge Island. We can use the schools and the newspaper to continually alert people to what is animal abuse, what they can do to help stop this abuse, how the law can help, and who to call. We can simply list the laws as provided for us online by the State of Washington legal system. Although that's a great place to start, we need to do more than that. We need to work to get unfair laws changed, the current laws that limit what the police and other government agencies can do to stop animal abuse. We need stronger, better laws. That is my dream and my goal. Martin Luther King said, Never, never be afraid to do what's right, especially if the well-being of a person or animal is at stake. Society's punishments are small compared to the wounds we inflict on our soul. When we look the other way."}
{"If Oil Didn't Exist": "For each chapter, answer the following questions:\n\nIf Oil Didn't Exist...\n\n1. As you read, keep a list of the qualities of oil that make it such a useful fuel.\n\n2. Why is transportation fuel (oil) harder to replace than fuel for generating electricity?\n\nTwenty Seven Saudi Arabias per Day\n\n1. How much power does the world use?\n\n200 million barrels of oil a day, 6.8 billion horsepower a day\n\n2. How does America's energy use compare to other nations?\n\nAmerican use 4.5 horsepower per capita by day. Pakistan and India use .025 horsepower a day. India uses 167 watts, Brazil uses  516 , US uses 3366. Americans lead the world in creating power.  The United States produces 74% of the energy it consumes.\n\n3. Why does this author believe that it is unrealistic to change our source of energy?\n\nAmerica uses so much power and it has created an economic powerhouse in the world America is unlikely to give that up. The other sources of power like wind power and solar power are unreliable do not create enough power\n\nFor each chapter, answer the following questions:\n\nIf Oil Didn't Exist...\n\n1. As you read, keep a list of the qualities of oil that make it such a useful fuel.\n\nOil is incredibly flexible. Oil not only create energy to run planes and cars it also can create rod acts we use every day. Oil keeps the economy moving literally it is put into diesel engines transport just about everything we own eat or drink.\n\n2. Why is transportation fuel (oil) harder to replace than fuel for generating electricity?\n\nThe cost is so much lower for cars. It is unrealistic to make an airplane with a bunch of batteries when oil is so much cheaper for example. Transportation rings us all of our hard and soft goods. Oil is flexible and reliable source than the four planes trains and cars.\n\nTwenty Seven Saudi Arabias per Day\n\n1. How much power does the world use?\n\n200 million barrels of oil a day, 6.8 billion horsepower a day\n\n2. How does America's energy use compare to other nations?\n\nAmerica uses a lot more energy than other nations per capita. We are energy hogs. Apparently the rest of the world uses a lot less power than the US does. American use 4.5 horsepower per capita by day. Pakistan and India only use .025 horsepower a day. India uses 167 watts, Brazil uses  516 watts , US uses 3366 watts. Americans lead the world in creating power.  The United States produces 74% of the energy it consumes.\n\n3. Why does this author believe that it is unrealistic to change our source of energy?\n\nThe costs of oil are much lower. Wind and solar power is a nice illusion but the reality is that we use too much electricity and it did not create enough electricity to be useful for our endless appetite for power. The author believes that people believe the hype and want to change but the reality is they simply use too much electricity for it to be a sensible idea."}
{"Even the Plaster Raccoon is Smiling": "As I drove by her house I didn't have the nerve to drop off the letter. There were no cars in the driveway, I could have totally escaped clean, it never would've come back on me, but Rachel was right I just couldn't do it. I guess she'll never know how much I really hate her. You would never have guessed that the letter clutched in my hand was so full of vile and anger based on the plain white envelope. The envelope looks so pedestrian, so normal. You would look at it and think, Oh have my insurance rates gone up again? It would never occur to you to look at such a plain white case and think Inside this envelope is proof that you ruined an entire year of life for two small children. The letter said:\n\nMs. Andrews,\n\nYou probably don't even remember me, but I thought of you every day. I was in your third grade class. You nearly destroyed my life. You were the worst teacher in the world. You made me think I was a moron. You told my mother I probably have dyslexia or maybe even some form of mental retardation. You suggested that my parents have me diagnosed immediately by a doctor, you told them this right in front of me as if I would be too stupid to even understand the words so I couldn't possibly be hurt by them, it's not as if I'm a real human being or anything. I was a 60-pound eight-year-old and at that moment you destroyed me. My heart felt like it had stopped and in that moment in time I felt worthless. Of course my mother took me home and told me that it was ridiculous. She told me you didn't know what on earth you were talking about. She told me I was smart as a whip and that sometimes there's just people who have strong opinions based on nothing that you just need to learn how to get along with them. It would take me years to realize that you are not a bad teacher; you're just a bad person.\n\nThe letter goes on to mention ten specific events from that year. I reminded her of the voting incident in December where all the children in the classroom got to vote whether or not you earned your self-manager badge. The children were expected to stand in front of the classroom, and she would say something like Children do you think this student has shown the qualifications to become a self manager? Is he polite? Does he get his work done on time? Then all of the 8 to 10-year-olds in the classroom were tasked with voting, hands in the air, deciding the fate of one of their own. I was a shy awkward child with few friends so needless to say I did not get my self-manager badge. I remember clearly standing up in front of the classroom and staring at the children's faces, very few children were looking back, because almost nobody had their hand up. It was one of the most degrading experiences of my life. In the letter I wrote a couple of bad words asking who the F she thought she was to put an eight-year-old through that. I don't mention in the letter I had a twin brother in the same classroom because our school had very few sets of twins, and I was afraid she might figure out who I was. Pathetic isn't it? I'm 15 years old, and I'm still afraid of my third-grade teacher. As if she has any authority to get me in trouble somehow.\n\nMy friend was driving further down the road with both of her hands at ten o'clock two o'clock on the wheel. I am almost 14 months younger than Rachel, and I do not have my license yet. My brother and I were always the youngest people in every classroom. I often wondered if my parents sent us to kindergarten when we were four because they needed the daycare not because we were so smart.\n\nRachel started to turn around once we hit the end of the road in a cul-de-sac and head back towards Ms. Andrews house. We had only been driving for a few minutes since I was too wimpy to drop off the letter and yet somehow Mrs. Andrews and her husband have arrived home and were unloading Target bags from the hatchback of their little blue car. Rachel wanted to speed by, but I told her to stop in front of a large overgrown bush next to the neighbors house. I watched them unload the car, bag after bag, and I was shocked to see that this task seemed so normal. I don't know what I expected to witness that day. I've never been to her house before so I visually scrutinized the outside. Surprisingly her home seemed inviting and warm. There was a little garden gnome that look like a plaster raccoon that had a big smile. They were tasteful flowers in a big pot next to the front stairs and a little sign that said, An old fisherman lives here with the catch of his life. I can only assume the catch of his life would be Mrs. Andrews. Mrs. Andrews looked small, almost frail, not exactly the demon I remember. She had let her hair go completely gray, and she was wearing an adult version of the Catholic school uniform with a plaid skirt, a white shirt and a blue blazer. Even with my eyes filled with hate, she was simply a woman, not a monster. Sometimes you see what you expect to see, like the scene in Lord of the Flies where Simon came out of the woods. Everybody thought he was a monster because that is what the children expected to be there. Deep inside my own head I was playing out scenarios with littluns and Jack. I looked over and Rachel was looking at me nervously.\n\nShe knew where Mrs. Andrews lived because they attended the same church. That fact hadn't resonated with me until this exact moment. Mrs. Andrews went to church with my best friend Rachel. Rachel and her family would never pick a church that was full of demons, would they? I went through the checklist in my mind of every horrible deed this hideous woman had done to me in third-grade. The ten I listed were only the worst offenses in the letter, there were plenty more. Ms. Andrews is old, she lives in a double wide trailer, she lives with the man who likes her enough to put up a sign declaring it and she goes to church. I started to assess this new information that driving to her house had provided me. While I sat there figuring out who this person was the last bags were brought inside the house, and I heard the click of the car doors locking by remote. Rachel looked at me expectantly, and I crushed the letter and my hand. She laughed and said, Told you! I bought Rachel frozen yogurt for the fools errand I sent us on that day and we never talked about it again. If I had to write a new letter it would start:\n\nDear Ms. Andrews,\n\nThank you for inspiring me to find my voice. Thank you for the unforgettable memory of the moment you gave up on me. Horrible though it was to hear those words, it empowers me to this day to stay strong in difficult times and reminds me to never give up.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nResponse to Literature/Snapshot Memoir Grading Rubric\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll items taken from the assignment description\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRubric Item\n\nNeeds Improvement\n\nDeveloping Technique\n\nMastered Technique\n\nStrong lead statement- action, dialogue, thought, reaction- Mini-Lesson\n\n\n\nX\n\n\n\nMemoir begins at an interesting point- middle or ending and then returns to the beginning- Mini-Lesson\n\n\n\n\n\nX\n\nLinks to a theme from Lord of the Flies - Response to Literature Link\n\n\n\nX\n\n\n\nUses sensory details effectively\n\n\n\nX\n\n\n\nUses figurative language well- simile, metaphor, personification, symbol (ties to LoF with symbols or imagery from the book,\nallusion (Honors)\n\nX\n\n\n\n\n\nStrong sense of personal voice\n\n\n\n\n\nX\n\nContains a beginning, middle, and end\n\n\n\n\n\nX\n\n\"So what\"- or evident reason for being written is apparent through a reflection or indirectly woven into the piece\n\n\n\n\n\nX\n\nMechanical errors are edited out of the final copy\n\n\n\nX- Still edit and watch out for the run-on\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFinal Grade:\n\n\n\nB+= +88/100 10th English\n\n"}
{"Persuasive Essay": "I believe cell phones should be allowed at middle school. Cell phones are the passing notes of the twenty first century but unlike passing notes there are compelling reasons cell phones have a place inside our school. Cell phones are needed for communication, as an aid to learning and for emergencies.\n\nCommunication is essential in todays busy society. Children as well as adults need the ability to change plans and act quickly to unforeseen circumstances during school hours. With cell phones kids can call and stay late for chess club or to say math practice has been cancelled. Parents lives are busy as well and they may need to change the daily schedule without much notice. Children can use their phones to communicate with their friends as well to ask for homework assignments or just to talk. Children with close friends are happier in all aspects of their life. Just like passing notes or being too chatty some kids will need to learn not to overuse their phones.\n\nA cell phone can be an important tool for learning. Cell phones today are so sophisticated that many have the ability to act as calculators. My scientific calculator cost almost $160. The same app on the phone cost 99 cents. Many cell phones have the ability to download great teaching tools for math and science. Phones are also a handy camera. My Cannon XL cost $300 dollars three years ago. My cell phone takes better photos with more pixels and came free with the phone. Digital photography is a great class and would be open to so many more students if they did not have to worry about the expense of a digital camera. Phones can also access the internet. This feature alone is worth the price of a phone. There are never enough computers available in the school to work on. If all the children with phones used them to download school information the line would be so much shorter to get to a computer. Many people believe that cheating on exams will be easier with cell phones but like all cheating people can be caught and punished.\n\nThe biggest reason to allow cell phones in school is safety. During the Columbine shootings in 1999 cell phones could have been used to alert police to where the shooters were in the school and where people were hiding. During September 11th phones connected people instantly to relatives waiting for word of their safety. Phones can call the school office the instant a stranger enters the school or when children are in any kind of danger. One month ago 28,000 people died in Japan during the earthquake and tsunami. Literally thousands of lives could have been saved just by going up two flights of stairs to higher ground if they had gotten a phone call instantly. Some believe during emergencies too many people will use their phones to call police but the authorities always like more information on large security events and can handle almost any call volume.\n\nCell phones are simply part of our daily lives now. They are so useful in so many ways. Like all new technology it will eventually become part of our school day and we will not even remember what we did without it. I believe we should look to this technology as a good step in the right direction and allow cell phones at school."}
{"Speech driving restrictions 16 to 18": "Washington State is considering raising the driving age to 18 this is an unusually bad idea for many reasons. Washington State already has graduated licensing requirements with many rules and regulations, Parents are overburdened with the responsibilities of driving and teens are not as reckless as people would have you think\n\nWashington State already has graduated licensing requirements with many rules and regulations to govern driving laws that concern teens.\r\n                *Teens must pass drivers education courses and take a written and driving exam to pass.\r\n                *Sixteen and seventeen year olds cannot carry other teen passengers and must drive with an experienced driver for almost a year after getting a license.\n\nTeen drivers cannot drive at night or alone and must retain a B average in school to receive insurance discounts.\r\n               *Teens cannot get a license without jumping through many hoops and following strict guidelines\r\n               *Parents are overburdened with the responsibilities of driving.\r\n               *Parents are tired of chauffeuring kids around town.\n\nThe economy has forced many families to send both parents back into the workforce to make ends meet. Parents cannot drive kids to work or sporting practices. Parents depend on their older teen children taking some of the financial responsibilities off them by getting jobs.\n\n*There are only so many hours in a day many teens will not get rides to important functions or to work.\r\n               *The economy would come to a complete halt if no teens could work. Clothing stores, fast food, and the movies would close down if teens stopped spending money there\n\nStatistically teens are not as reckless as people would have you think.\n\nThe best argument for leaving law as it stands it a simple one. Accidents are not caused by drivers who happen to be 16 or 17 years old they are caused by NEW drivers. So if you change the law to 18 then they will be new drivers and have disproportionate amount of accidents.\n\nTeens get bad publicity but numbers do not lie. In fatal accidents in a ten year period between 1998 and 2008 only 10% of 16 year olds had alcohol in their blood compared to 43% of 20-49 year olds. The adults were 4.3 times more likely to be drinking than teens.\n\nThe National Insurance Alliance has found that 16 and 17 year old drivers receive only 1% of the texting or phone violation driving tickets.\r\n               *That means 99% of texting or speaking on cell phone tickets were given to those 18 and up.\r\n               *The media has done a good job of teaching teens the importance of safe driving.\r\n               *The media has also portrayed teens as reckless for comic effect but the statistics do not add up.\r\n               *Teens actually cause very few of the fatal accidents adults do the most damage.\n\nYou could argue that teens die everyday from accidents, that they are too immature and that their impulse control isnt mature enough to handle the responsibility. I believe statistics will prove that new drivers, not teen drivers, cause these accidents. Impulse control in teens seems much better statistically than adults. Ninety-nine percent moving violations along with 90% alcohol related fatalities are caused by adults.\n\nMaturity happens when you give teens a chance and they succeed. Keeping teens at home playing X-Box is not helping their maturity issues. The ability to get a job and attend after school sports practices do increase maturity. All of which can happen if you have a car.\n\nWe were all new drivers once. With education and the existing laws governing teens and driving we will all be safe with teens getting their licenses at 16.\n\nWashington State already has graduated licensing requirements with many rules and regulations, Parents are overburdened with the responsibilities of driving and teens are not as reckless as people would have you think.\n\nI believe we should keep the driving age at 16 in Washington State."}
{"The Income Divide in College Admission": "It is a well-known fact that children from affluent families tend to do better in school. Yet the income divide has received far less attention from policy makers and government officials than gaps in student accomplishment by race. The election of a black president proved, as nothing else could have, that racism exists, but is no longer a serious problem in the United States. Nothing magically changed when Barack Obama was elected president of the United States. We have proven, as a country, that race is no longer an insurmountable obstacle anymore. The one huge division that exists within our society that we need to face head-on is the marked difference in educational opportunities between different socioeconomic groups in the US. We can further narrow educational inequalities by understanding that these inequalities exist\n\nDoing well in high school isn't enough to get to the next level, college. Affirmative action is all but dead in United States universities. Lost in the debate of affirmative action is a simple fact, income not race, is a real determining factor in higher education today. Millions of kids are not attending college. Not because they are unqualified, but because they simply cannot afford it. Families that earn in the top 25% of income in the United States send 80% of their children to college. Of the bottom 25% of income earners in the US less than 10% of the children go to college. Family income is the new predictor of a childs future achievement. Education should be the great equalizer in American society.\n\nEducation can lift less advantaged children and improve their chances for lifetime success as adults. The achievement gap between rich and poor is the new racism in the United States.\n\nWhy are children from privileged backgrounds more successful in school? Why do these advantages persist over time? These are complex moral dilemmas. Over time, cultural and social differences combine to preserve privilege across many generations. Poor children are twice as likely to repeat a grade, to be suspended, expelled or drop out of high school. Children living underneath the poverty line are almost twice as likely to be placed in special education classes.  Unequal school financing across school districts is also unfair. The state of New York spent $19,076 per pupil in 2011. The state of Idaho spent only $6,823 per pupil in that same year. In 2011 67.6% of New York high school seniors planned on attending college after graduation, only 31.1% of seniors in Idaho had made the same plans.\n\nThere are major advantages for students from families with more economic resources. Wealthy parents can invest more time and money in weekend sports, ballet, music lessons, math tutors and weekend SAT prep classes. As kids get older parents try to position their children for the best colleges, which is even more essential for success in today's economy.\n\nWhat can we do to even the playing field? I believe we need to scrap our entire system and rethink education from the bottom up. I don't think we need to reinvent the wheel. Why don't we just copy the most successful highly educated industrial country in the world and do exactly what they do? Finland seems to be doing everything right. In the United States the bottom third of students become teachers, in Finland only one in eight applicants will receive a coveted teaching position in any school. Children learn because they are passionate about the process of learning. The children in Finland never have to worry about getting into college or how they will pay for it because there are no high-stakes tests and it costs nothing to get in.  From personal experience I can tell you that the only reason I don't take AP computer science and Japanese at my high school is because I know I probably won't get an A. In Finland I would take both and more because I don't have to worry about my GPA getting me into a good school. I would actually have more to offer a university if I didn't worry so much about my grades. It's an odd circle grades and college; you can't get into the college with anything other than flawless grades yet you skip over incredibly important classes simply because you don't want your GPA to suffer. There is virtually no poverty in Finland. The unemployment rate is statistically zero. The standard of living is high. Average 15-year-olds in Finland are among the happiest people on the planet according to a USA Today poll. All of this and they spend less per-pupil on education through college then the average US state.\n\n\"...The richest nation on Earth has never allocated enough resources to build sufficient schools, to compensate adequately its teachers, and to surround them with the prestige our work justifies. We squander funds on highways, on the frenetic pursuit of recreation, on the overabundance of overkill armament, but we pauperize education.\" From a speech given by Martin Luther King on March 14, 1964, when he accepted the John Dewey Award from the United Federation of Teachers."}
{"Human Rights in India": "Illiteracy, poverty, the caste system, dowry deaths and female infanticide highlight the human right abuses in India. Women and children fare the worst in general across all socioeconomic groups in India. Incredible poverty deprives many of their basic rights. The caste system is alive and well and even though it is been illegal for six years and continues to dominate the lives of many who live the circle of poverty. Safe drinking water, sanitation, housing, basic health and human services impact the lives of hundreds of millions of Indians. Women and female children are especially vulnerable to violence and abuse at the hands of the male centered society. Tribal groups including the cast Dalits, or the so-called untouchables, continue to face discrimination and violence daily. The justice system has failed to prosecute very many abusers of these vulnerable groups. The practice of manual scavenging or the cleaning by hand of human waste by low caste members in India continues despite numerous laws on the books. Children, especially female children are often victims of sexual abuse and child labor.\n\n\n\nMap by: luthfispace: April 2011 luthfispace.blogspot.com\n\n\n\nMap by: File: 2011 Census India literacy distribution map by states and union territories.svg - Wikimedia Commons commons.wikimedia.org\n\n\n\nMap by: Demographics of India - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia en.wikipedia.org\n\n\n\nMap by: State Wise Per Capita Income of India  www.mapsofindia.com\n\n\n\nMap by: Remapping Poverty in India | GeoCurrents www.geocurrents.info\n\n\n\nMap by: April 2013 ArchivesGeoCurrents geocurrents.info (the data story information is further below)\n\nThese maps all tell a story of the unbelievable poverty of India. Overpopulation and lack of opportunity because of the caste system has left 80% of India and poverty that is difficult to imagine. Women are forced to marry very young and have no education to fall back upon them because they marry so young they have too many children that they cannot afford and their situation becomes worse and worse. Some of the poorest sections of India have the highest fertility rates. These sections also have the lowest literacy rates. The circle of poverty continues through generations. The caste system that makes it nearly impossible for those in the lowest castes to ever improve their life or the lives of their children. When these maps talk about poverty they do not take into consideration the extreme poverty of India. When 75% of the population earn less than $78 a month it would sound as if three quarters of the population are starving to death. The odd truth is that they are considered at risk not poor by international standards. You must earn less than a $1.25 a day to be considered extremely poor and at risk according to the United Nations. India has one of the largest population of people earning a dollar 25 or less a day. 35% of the population of India cannot read or write at all. The numbers are highest for women. Many women decide to start in the workforce as small children because adults feel that female children have no need for education and they need them to earn a living to bring the rest of the family money. Thus starts the circle of poverty.\n\n75% of the population of India are people earning less than $78 a month.\n\n1.2 billion people live in the seventh largest country of the world\n\nWhen three quarters of your population live below the basic poverty line stakeholders in this situation are nearly every man woman and child in the country of India.\n\nLike the United States India also has the upper echelon who represent the vast majority of wealth in the entire country.\n\nThe caste system has kept people down for generations and the cycle of poverty means it is difficult to get out\n\nBy Ritika Katyal, for CNN http://www.cnn.com/2015/08/02/asia/india-poor-census-secc/   India's latest Socioeconomic and Caste Census (SECC) paints a stark picture of widespread rural poverty and deprivation.\n\n75% earned less than $78 a month, 11% own a refrigerator, 35% are illiterate, 28% do not own a phone, less than 5% pay income tax\n\nOf the 300 million households surveyed, an overwhelming majority (73%) live in villages. Of this rural population, less than 5% earn enough to pay taxes, only 2.5% own a 4-wheeler vehicle and less than 10% have salaried jobs.\n\nNot only does rural India have miserable statistics on income and asset ownership, its literacy rates are low. Only 3.5% of students graduate and around 35.7% of residents can't read or write.\n\nIt comes as no surprise that the bulk of the Indian population is still overwhelmingly poor.\n\nPast surveys and experts have continued to emphasize the chasm between the two disparate pictures of India -- one that owns ambitious space and nuclear programs, and boasts of billionaires and information technology prowess, and the one in the villages, of which 92 million households (51%) earn their living by manual labor.\n\nThe self-reported data from the SECC survey will be used for targeting new and existing welfare schemes. Toeing the line taken by the previous administration, the government refrained from making caste data public.\n\nIndia's definition of \"poor\" has been hotly debated by development economists and activists, with several finding the official poverty line too low and leaving out a number of people who might still need government assistance. In 2014, a report by the Indian government Planning Commission estimated that 363 million Indians, making up 29.5% of the total population, were living below the poverty line in 2011-12. The report, by the Rangarajan Expert Group, also estimates that the India poverty ratio fell from 38.2% to 29.5% between 2009-10 and 2011-12, lifting 91.6 million individuals out of poverty. According to a Pew Research Center report released this month, while people were able to move up the social ladder from poor to low income during the last decade, the actual number of people in the middle class (living on $10-20 a day) barely budged from 1% in 2001 to 3% in 2011. Most developing countries set poverty lines far below those of advanced country levels.\n\nLiving on double the Indian Planning Commission poverty line of $2.40 per day would still mean not meeting nutritional and other needs at developed economy levels. Many poor people \"lifted out of poverty\" are still living at levels closer to $2.40 than $10 per day. The Pew report estimates that at the proposed Rangarajan poverty line, food consumption alone would take up 57% of a rural family's budget and 47% of an urban family's budget.\n\nThe first British outpost in South Asia was established in 1619 at Surat on the northwestern coast. Later in the century, the East India Company opened permanent trading stations at Madras, Bombay, and Calcutta, each under the protection of native rulers.\n\nAccording to Wikipedia the British made the caste system very legal The role of the British Raj on the caste system in India is controversial. The caste system became legally rigid during the Raj, when the British started to enumerate castes during theirten-year census and meticulously codified the system. Between 1860 and 1920, the British segregated Indians by caste, granting administrative jobs and senior appointments only to the upper castes.\n\nIndia is the largest democracy in the world\n\nIndia faces the challenges of poverty, corruption, malnutrition, inadequate healthcare and continual caste prejudices.\n\nMahatma Gandhi helped India move towards independence from Britain in the 40s\n\nIndia was independent in 1947 that was split into two countries India and Pakistan.\n\nIn the 1990s economic liberalization created an urban middle class for the first time and India transformed into a fast-growing national economy.\n\nIn both urban and rural areas there is unbelievable poverty that pulls down there economy\n\nthere is both religious and caste related violence\n\nIndia also fights with its neighbors China and Pakistan\n\nSome people born into a life of luxury, while others are considered \"untouchable\" because they were born into the wrong caste, destined to live a life of poverty with occasional menial labour, if they are lucky\n\nHistory of the Caste system: In medieval times, a coterie of brahma-bandhus, wanting to hold on to brahminical privileges without developing the required character, started claiming that caste was decided by birth and was unchangeable. Further they misused their social influence to deprive lower castes of access to the practices of self-realization. And thus began the unfortunate history of casteist discrimination. Says Chaitanya Charan, Spiritual mentor/ Author of articles on Bhagavad Gita and Vedic philosophy URL: http://able2know.org/topic/228687-1\n\nThe Scheduled Castes(SCs) and Scheduled Tribes(STs) are official designations given to various groups of historically disadvantaged people in India. The terms are recognized in the Constitution of India.\n\n\n\nMap by: What is the caste system? landonwhi.weebly.com\n\n\n\nScheduled castes distribution map in India by state and union territory according to 2011 Census, Punjab had the highest% of its population as SC (32%), while India's island territories and two northeastern states had 0%.\n\n\n\nScheduled Tribes distribution map in India by state and union territory according to 2011 Census. Mizoram and Lakshadweep had the highest% of its population as ST (95%), while Punjab and Haryana had 0%.\n\nThe three main groups that have the brunt of civil rights atrocities are women, children and the lowest castes the Untouchables.\n\nThe asset Census map shows how poor most of India really is\n\nthere are areas in west central India that are hit with the most extreme poverty even though these areas are very close to the most prosperous cities right outside the cities are unbelievable slums in garbage heaps that people have lived in for decades\n\nthe corruption in India means civil rights laws are on the books that the police and judicial officials do nothing to punish people who do not follow them\n\nPoverty  India has the largest concentration of people living beneath the world bank international poverty line of United States $1.25 a day.\n\nThe people living beneath this poverty line have decreased from    the proportion having decreased from 60% in 1981 to 42% in 2005, and 25% in 2011.    30.7% of India's children under the age of five are underweight. According to a Food and Agriculture Organization report in 2015, 15% of Indian population is undernourished.\n\nCorruption in India is widespread.\n\n14 million people in India are living in conditions of slavery they are in bonded labor.\n\nIndia has the largest number of child laborers under the age of 14 in the world many are doing jobs that are incredibly\n\nhttp://www.geocurrents.info/geonotes/remapping-poverty-in-india  Data Stories ( on India, One Chart at a Time) recently published some intriguing maps and other visualizations of poverty and wealth in India. Its poverty map, posted here, shows households that dont own any of the assets listed on the census formsthat means no phone, no TV or radio, and no vehicle of any kind, a category that encompasses 18 percent of Indian households nationwide. This map deviates from more conventional maps of poverty in India in several regards (see the Pinterest map posted below). A number of districts in Kashmir in the north and in Indias far northeast (particularly in Nagaland) show much more deprivation on the Data Stories assets map than on the Pinterest poverty-line map. Uttar Pradesh in north-central India, on the other hand, appears much better off on the assets map than on the poverty-line map, as do some districts in northern Tamil Nadu (in the southeast). Particularly striking on the Data Stories map is the depiction of a belt of extreme poverty in west-central India, where the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra converge, an area near some of Indias most prosperous cities. The explanation of this belt, however, is clear, as it closely tracks the territory of the Bhils, a so-called tribal (or Adivasi) people some twelve-million strong. In several parts of India, the map of asset-less household correlates relatively well with Adivasi populations.\n\n\n\nSource: http://www.geocurrents.info/geonotes/remapping-poverty-in-india#ixzz45Nd5UK2n\n\nthe caste system is a social hierarchy\n\nin the long history of discrimination The British colonial government, for instance, enacted the Criminal Tribes Act of 1871. This law states Simon Cole, a professor of Criminology, Law & Society, declared everyone belonging to certain castes to be born with criminal tendencies.\n\nsocial classes are defined by     thousands of endogamous hereditary groups, often termed as \"castes\". India declared untouchability to be illegalin 1947 and has since enacted other anti-discriminatory laws and social welfare initiatives.  According to Wikipedia\n\nGandhi argued against castes by saying Caste in its current form, claimed Gandhi, had nothing to do with religion. The discrimination and trauma of castes, argued Gandhi, was the result of custom, the origin of which is unknown. Gandhi said that the customs' origin was a moot point, because one could spiritually sense that these customs were wrong, and that any caste system is harmful to the spiritual well-being of man and economic well-being of a nation.\n\nit is often difficult to find work if you are not of the correct caste you will simply not be interviewed is not that you don't get the job it is that you did get interviewed so you never had the chance to get the job.  It is a way around the law and part of the continuing civil rights violations that happen daily in India\n\nmany Indians are in an arranged marriage\n\nthe divorce rate is very low\n\nChild marriages are common especially in rural areas\n\nit is against the law because women are not allowed to get married before they are 18.\n\nThere are 50 million more males than females in the nation according to Wikipedia\n\ndeaths resulting from dowry mostly from bride burning are actually on the rise\n\nthere are many laws to protect people in the caste system since 1950 there are social initiatives to improve the socioeconomic conditions of the lower caste population of India.\n\nThere are quotas for college admission jobs and other affirmative action\n\nDiscrimination against lower castes is illegal in India under Article 15 of its constitution, and India tracksviolence against Dalits nationwide.\n\nIndia today saysIndependent India has witnessed caste-related violence. According to a 2005 UN report, approximately 31,440 cases of violent acts committed against Dalits were reported in 1996. The UN report claimed 1.33 cases of violent acts per 10,000 Dalit people. For context, the UN reported between 40 and 55 cases of violent acts per 10,000 people in developed countries in 2005. One example of such violence is theKherlanji Massacre of 2006.\n\nchild marriage is very common in rural areas\n\ndeath from bride burning is not going down but actually on the rise in India\n\nIndia is a patriarchal country where men are considered in charge\n\na woman is a burden in Indian society if you are poor\n\nthe birth of the female child is not celebrated only male children are happy event\n\nwomen are encouraged to abort female fetuses at an alarming rate in some of the poorest areas there are 30% more male children than female\n\nthere are many laws on the books to check women's rights that they are consistently ignored\n\nhonor keeps women quiet when they are raped or molested because they are afraid that their own family will kill them\n\nmany women are forced to marry their rapist to save their honor\n\ndowry deaths are real thing and many women die each year\n\nfemale babies are consistently undernourished\n\nwomen get the scraps left over after men eat\n\nwomen do not generally go to see a doctor people save their money for the males family to have proper health care\n\nhttp://www.nios.ac.in/media/documents/SecICHCour/English/CH.20.pdf The Constitution gives equal rights to both men and women in every field. Today, women enjoy voting rights, right to inheritance and property. In fact, the Constitution lay down that the government should promote with special care the interests of the weaker sections of the people. Several laws have been passed since independence to promote the interests of women. These laws relate to marriage, inheritance of property, divorce, dowry, etc. In 1976, the Equal Remuneration Act was passed to provide for equal remuneration to men and women for similar work. Recently, the government has started a scheme for the protection of girl child. The scheme is called Ladli, in which an amount is set aside at the time of the birth of a girl child which she gets when she completes eighteen years of age. This amount is then used for the education or the marriage of the child. Similarly, there is another scheme called Jaccha Baccha scheme. Under this scheme, the state governments take care of the birth of the child and all expenditure related to medical assistance for the upbringing of the child. However, in spite of these provisions, we find a lot of discrimination against women.\n\nIn India females are discriminated in various fields like health, education and jobs.\n\nThe girls carry the liability of dowry on their head, and they have to leave their parents home after marriage.\n\nTo safeguard their old age parents prefer to have male offspring. Many female babies are aborted, abandoned, deliberately neglected and underfed simply as they are girls.\n\nThis is worst in the state of Rajasthan. In many communities, women and girls get less food or poor quality food compared to men and boys.\n\nWhen they are ill, they get less attention or receive some attention only when the disease becomes extremely serious. There is ample evidence at the global level of disparity in health status between men and women and their access to medical services.\n\nThe practice of dowry is one of the worst social practices that has affected Indian culture. In independent India, one of the landmark legislations is the passing of the Dowry Prohibition Act in 1961 by the Government of India.\n\nDespite the fact that the practice of both giving as well as accepting dowry is banned by law and such acts are punishable offences, the system is so thoroughly imbedded in the culture that it continues unabated.\n\nWhether it is rural or urban India, the blatant violation of this law is rampant. Not only dowry deaths, even most of the acts of domestic violence against women including psychological as well as physical torture are related to matters of dowry.\n\nSome of the very basic human rights of women are violated almost every day.\n\nA large number of children, because of poverty, do not go to school or are withdrawn from schools before they complete their elementary education and are forced to start working at a young and tender age in factories, brick-klins, restaurants, hotels, shops etc.\n\nThis hampers their growth physically, mentally, and emotionally.\n\nA child in the age group of 6-14 years is supposed to be in the school. But unfortunately, of the 200 million Indian children in this age group, about 11.3 million are labourers.\n\nThe estimate by NGOs puts it at 60 million, of which 2,000,000 work as domestic help and almost an equal number as bonded labourers.\n\nThese children become vulnerable to physical and mental exploitation, they are starved, beaten and even sexually exploited.\n\nPossible Outcome 1: Human Rights Restored to the People of India Because of the Laws Meant to Protect Them\n\nLaws to protect human rights\n\nPro: there are many laws on the books to protect women, children in the lower castes members.\n\nDowry Prohibition Act in 1961 by the Government of India.\n\nDiscrimination against lower castes is illegal in India under Article 15 of its constitution, and India tracksviolence against Dalits nationwide.\n\nA 2003 article in The Telegraph claimed that inter-caste marriage and dating were common in urban India. Indian societal and family relationships are changing because of female literacy and education, women at work, urbanisation, the need for two-income families, and global influences through television. Female role models in politics, academia, journalism, business, and India's feminist movement have accelerated the change\n\nCons: most of the laws on the books are not followed and there is mass corruption in India at every level from placement to judges who allow atrocities to continue.\n\nWikipedia says Critics believe that the economic liberalisation has benefited just a small elite and left behind the poor, especially the lowest Hindu caste of dalits. But a recent authoritative survey revealed striking improvements in living standards of dalits in the last two decades. Television ownership was up from zero to 45 percent; cellphone ownership up from zero to 36 percent; two-wheeler ownership (of motorcycles, scooters, mopeds) up from zero to 12.3 percent; children eating yesterday's leftovers down from 95.9 percent to 16.2 percent... Dalits running their own businesses up from 6 percent to 37 percent; and proportion working as agricultural labourers down from 46.1 percent to 20.5 percent.\n\nPossible outcome 2: Things Remain the Same\n\nPros: over time more and more intermarriages dilute the absolute control of the higher castes. Over time more and more women fight against their lot in life and slowly regain control of their own existence. Over time the international community helps more and more children in impoverished India and things get better for them.\n\nCons: things remain the same. Over time nothing changes and 80% of the population boom because so many poor women are having three or more children and the problem gets worse and worse.\n\nPossible outcome 3: the poor figure out that they have the numbers to overtake the rich and a civil war ensues.\n\nPros: the poor of India easily outnumber the rich and handily defeat them in a civil war.\n\nCons: a civil war will kill millions and millions of people. The rich have access to the Army and slaughter entire cities at a time. A long drawnout war could kill 1 billion people.\n\nPossible Solutions and or Obstacles to the Solutions\n\nPossible Solutions:\n\nSteps taken by the government to improve the situation of SC and ST lower castes\n\nThe Constitution provides a three-pronged strategy to improve the situation of SCs and STs:\n\nProtective arrangements: Such measures as are required to enforce equality, to provide punitive measures for transgressions, to eliminate established practices that perpetuate inequities, etc. A number of laws were enacted to implement the provisions in the Constitution. Examples of such laws include The Untouchability Practices Act, 1955, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, The Employment of Manual Scavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act, 1993, etc.\n\nAffirmative action: Provide positive treatment in allotment of jobs and access to higher education as a means to accelerate the integration of the SCs and STs with mainstream society. Affirmative action is popularly known as reservation.\n\nDevelopment: Provide resources and benefits to bridge the socioeconomic gap between the SCs and STs and other communities. Major part played by the Hidayatullah National Law University.\n\nSolution But now there is a great change in this direction. In some states like Haryana where girl child ratio is very low, the government has taken out many schemes to promote education of girls. Reservation of jobs for women and even six months maternity leave is provided to them besides many others. http://www.nios.ac.in/media/documents/SecICHCour/English/CH.20.pdf\n\nPossible Obstacles:\n\na very long history of civil rights violations\n\ncorruption at every level\n\nan honor code that does not allow women to report domestic abuse rape or violence\n\na patriarchal system that keeps women down\n\nlaws that protect generations of wealth in one caste\n\nlack of international sanctions against India\n\nCaste system Marriage & Voting in 2013 the New York Times By LAVANYA SANKARAN JUNE 15, 2013 http://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/16/opinion/sunday/caste-is-not-past.html?_r=0\n\nAs India transforms, one might expect caste to dissolve and disappear, but that is not happening. Instead, caste is making its presence felt in ways similar to race in modern America: less important now in jobs and education, but vibrantly alive when it comes to two significant societal markersmarriage and politics.\n\nNo surprise on that first one. Inter-caste marriages in India are on the rise but still tend to be the province of the liberal few. For much of the country, with its penchant for arranged marriages and close family ties, caste is still a primary determinant in choosing a spouse.\n\nPolitics is where caste has gotten a surprising new lease on life. After money and education, democracy is, of course, the third powerful force transforming Indian society. But Indians, it turns out, are passionate about the caste of their politicians. Nearly half of the voting population of even a highly educated city like Bangalore considers caste to be the No. 1 reason to vote for a candidate.\n\nSix decades of democratic statehood have attempted to correct the imbalances of the past through reservationjob and education quotas for the so-called backward castes, like the Dalits. This program has been effective, in a fairly hit-or-miss fashion. Some say that nearly all university seats are reserved for lower castes, effectively blocking Brahmins from higher education. Others point out that the vast majority of high paying jobs are still in the hands of the top three castes.\n\nhttp://sai.columbia.edu/files/sai/content/Indian%20Democracy--Illusion%20or%20Reality%20--%20in%20Education%20about%20Asia%202007.pdf by PHILIP OLDENBURG\n\nFor the last sixty years, since it gained independence in 1947, India has claimed the position of the worlds largest democracy. For almost as long, skeptics have seen Indias democracy as an Indian rope trick, 1 an illusion in which the superstructure of democratic governmenta parliament and prime minister, periodic elections, constitutionally-guaranteed freedomshides the reality of on-the-ground authoritarian rule by local landlords, bureaucracy, and party bosses, buttressed by a culture of caste-based inequality, and sustained by Indias continuing desperate poverty.\n\nThe 195152 elections for national parliament and state legislatures highlighted the bold decision to adopt universal adult suffrage. Despite the high level of illiteracy and low level of education, all men and women twenty-one and olderthe age limit has since been lowered to eighteenhad the right to vote\n\nIndia is usually ranked among the worlds worst countries when it comes to the prevalence of corruption\n\nWith literacy and significant education still at very low levels, how can citizens cast their votes effectively? Do programs and policies change meaningfully when new parties come to power? Doesnt the weakness of the rule of law at the lowest level encourage criminalization of politics and increase the difficulty of bringing corrupt officials to justice? Are there not powerful landowning and other classes that dominate and control politics in Delhi, state capitals, and local arenas?\n\nConsiderable empirical evidence exists that regardless of gender, most people no longer vote according to the dictates of husbands, or caste leaders, or even those with economic power over them. The secret ballot makes an enormous difference.\n\n\"Caste System in India.\" Caste System in India, Indian Caste System, Caste in India. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Caste System in India for Dummies.\" Dummies. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Caste System in India.\" Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"The Caste System of India.\" About. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Findings on the Worst Forms of Child Labor in India.\" DOL India. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Huffington Post 5 Myths about Indian Poverty.\" Huffington Post. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Huffington Post India.\" Huffington Post. N.p., n.d. Web. 6 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"India and Poverty.\" Poverty around the World. N.p., n.d. Web.\n\n\"India: Shock Dowry Deaths Increase Revealed.\" Sky News. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Life for Women in India.\" CBS News Presents India Perspectives. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"National Geographic Presents the Caste System in India.\" National Geographic. N.p., May 2013. Web. 6 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"One Woman Dies Every Hour In Dowry Death in India.\" UK Telegraph World News. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Poverty and Its Causes in India.\" My India. N.p., 09 June 2013. Web. 11 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Poverty in India.\", Poverty Rate in India, Population below Poverty Line, Poverty Reduction in India, Urban Poverty In India, Rural Poverty In India, Indian Problems. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Poverty in India: Causes, Effects, Injustice & Exclusion.\" Poverties.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Poverty in India.\" Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 6 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Rural Poverty Portal.\" Rural Poverty Portal. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Untouchables Face Violence and Discrimination.\" National Geographic India. N.p., Nov. 2014. Web. 7 Apr. 2016."}
{"Gender Inequality in India": "1. Summary\n\nFrom the moment a female child is allowed to be born she was discriminated against in India. Discrimination happens at every socioeconomic level and is widespread throughout India. The birth of a female child brings thoughts of a dowry that will need to be paid and the financial burden it brings. Boys are brought into the world with fanfare and excitement and girls are seen as a financial burden. Females are far less likely to be literate, far more likely to be the victim of violence and historically have very little chances of inheriting wealth. While the economy is growing rapidly, 79.9 percent still live on less than $2 each day. Although there are many laws that are meant to protect women very few are followed not only because of the rampant corruption in India but because the honor code that is culturally inherent in society.\n\n2. Maps areas of policy Geographic summary how does geography affect gender inequality?\n\n\n\nMap http://www.geocurrents.info/population-geography/indias-plummeting-birthrate-a-television-induced-transformation\n\n\n\nMap Wikipedia 2016\n\n\n\nMap Wikipedia 2016\n\n\n\n\n\nMap Wikipedia 2015 Poverty rates India\n\nThese maps show the vast poverty in India. Some of the poorest areas of India are closest to the largest most wealthy cities. Women do poorly across the board in India but the poorest women fair far worse in terms of propensity to be a victim of violence in rural areas. The amount of poverty in India is staggering. 80% of society lives on less than $78 a month. In families female children are often pulled out of school at a very young age to help bring money to the family while male children are allowed to continue. Even in the wealthiest families women are often uneducated because they are meant to be nothing more than wives and mothers so why bother? India is a large country and there are large areas where the rural population does very little to increase the standard of living for women. Women are far less likely to receive healthcare and nutrition. Looking at the maps you can see that the more children women have the more likely they are to be extremely poor. Because there is so little healthcare women rarely are able to regulate the amount of children that they have. The only time some woman sees a doctor is to get an abortion to get rid of a female child in some places. Women and female children are the last in a family. Female children and women literally receive the scraps after the men are done eating. In this patriarchal society, women fair less than dogs. Women are far more likely to be illiterate, and live in poverty.\n\n3. Stakeholders-Women\n\nParticipants 1.252 billion people a little less than half are women. Less than half are women because so many female fetuses are aborted. The stakeholders of course want equal footing with men in society but there were deep held we the just and cultural problems that hold them back. There are many laws that attempt to help women but women across the entire caste system face incredible gender inequality. The women from the lowest castes have the most difficult time in India because they are women. The most obvious problem with the caste system was that under its rigidity, the lower castes were prevented from aspiring to climb higher, and, therefore, economic progress is restricted, especially for women. There are many reasons for this including cultural history and the caste system. Women are held by a strict honor code. Women are not allowed to be alone with men for example and because all of the teachers in India are generally men just sending a girl to school is enough reason for her virginity to be questioned so in rural populations people keep their female children home so no one can question their virginity. Forced marriages also hold women back from an education. The caste system makes increasing the income of a household even more difficult.\n\nHistorical Background\n\nWomen in India seek gender equality including equal wages, the right to health care, education and where political rights in general. Indian women are faced with even more problems because of the historical patriarchal society. The arcane inheritance laws and violence against women have gained notoriety recently but in rural India women simply do not use their voices\n\nGandhi started a women's movement in 1915. More recently laws have been changed focusing on the fair treatment of women in the workplace and at home.\n\nDespite laws on the books to protect women the honor system and a lack of voice have caused women to accept abuse and even rape without saying a word. Women from the lowest caste has seen the greatest incidences of abuse although women from every socioeconomic group in India have seen increases over the years and violence.\n\nhttp://ngm.nationalgeographic.com/ngm/0306/feature1/  National Geographic Magazine Tom O'Neill To be born a Hindu in India is to enter the caste system, one of the world's longest surviving forms of social stratification.\n\nEmbedded in Indian culture for the past 1,500 years, the caste system follows a basic precept: All men are created unequal.\n\nThe ranks in Hindu society come from a legend in which the main groupings, or varnas, emerge from a primordial being. From the mouth come the Brahmansthe priests and teachers. From the arms come the Kshatriyasthe rulers and soldiers. From the thighs come the Vaisyasmerchants and traders. From the feet come the Sudraslaborers.\n\nEach varna in turn contains hundreds of hereditary castes and subcastes with their own pecking orders. A fifth group describes the people who are achuta, or untouchable. The primordial being does not claim them. Untouchables are outcastspeople considered too impure, too polluted, to rank as worthy beings.\n\nPrejudice defines their lives, particularly in the rural areas, where nearly three-quarters of India's people live. Untouchables are shunned, insulted, banned from temples and higher caste homes, made to eat and drink from separate utensils in public places, and, in extreme but not uncommon cases, are raped, burned, lynched, and gunned down.\n\nCaste Sysyem for Dummies: India's caste system has four main classes (also called varnas ) based originally on personality, profession, and birth. In descending order, the classes are as follows: Brahmana (now more commonly spelled Brahmin): Consist of those engaged in scriptural education and teaching, essential for the continuation of knowledge. Kshatriya:\n\nTake on all forms of public service, including administration, maintenance of law and order, and defense. Vaishya: Engage in commercial activity as businessmen. Shudra: Work as semi-skilled and unskilled laborers. Untouchables.\n\nhttp://www.indiacelebrating.com/social-issues/gender-inequality-in-india/ The root cause of gender inequality in Indian society lies in its patriarchy system. According to the famous sociologists Sylvia Walby, patriarchy is a system of social structure and practices in which men dominate, oppress and exploit women. Womens exploitation is an age old cultural phenomenon of Indian society. The system of patriarchy finds its validity and sanction in our religious beliefs, whether it is Hindu, Muslim or any other religion.\n\nFor instance, as per ancient Hindu law giver Manu: Women are supposed to be in the custody of their father when they are children, they must be under the custody of their husband when married and under the custody of her son in old age or as widows. In no circumstances she should be allowed to assert herself independently.\n\nThe above described position of women as per Manu is still the case in present modern day social structure. Barring few exceptions here and there, women have no power to take independent decisions either inside their homes or in outside world.\n\nIn Muslims also the situation is same and there too sanction for discrimination or subordination is provided by religious texts and Islamic traditions. Similarly in other religious beliefs also women are being discriminated against in one way or other.\n\nThe unfortunate part of gender inequality in our society is that the women too, through, continued socio-cultural conditioning, have accepted their subordinate position to men. And they are also part and parcel of same patriarchal system.\n\nCurrent situation violence against women, dowrys and antiquated laws, poverty\n\nViolence against women\n\nThe current situation in India is little better than it has been in the past because of international spotlight shone on the country. The caste system although illegals still exists although some people in India have said that because of laws entry into universities is difficult because so many in the lower castes are allowed to enter is shutting out the upper castes ability to get into a school. If you were to believe them then things must be getting better, but not for women. Women still hold the lowest place in society. Women's place is to take care of the home if they are wealthy and are often married young inside of the marriage that the parents have arranged and must follows cultural norms where males are always in charge. Women are not even really in charge of their home. Women who do get divorced, which is incredibly rare, are often separated from their children because men are believed to be able to raise children better than women. Courts often allow children to live with women until they are about five and then they go live with their fathers. Violence against women especially domestic life was his quite common. Domestic violence is rarely reported to authorities because the justice system simply does not work in women's favor. The current justice system works so slowly that by the time it gets to court literally years have gone by. And those are just the cases that actually make it to court those cases don't make it to court because women choose not to press charges in the first place. But even if you follow the numbers you will see that violence against women is a huge problem in India. When you consider that about 1% of crimes or even reported in the first place violence against women is a catastrophic problem in India.\n\nFacts about women in India\n\nhttp://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/2012/12/2012122991735307545.html Sudha G Tilak |11 Mar 201309:02 GMT|India, Singapore The conflict of accepting women entering bars or dressing in non traditional Indian clothing, making independent choices, and refusing male attention are all seen as threats and provocation that need to be contained in big cities in India, says Asavari Singh, a gender and media studies professional. While the reasons for rape in villages and tribal areas are attributed to caste, honour, family wars and repressive attitudes, India's big cities are also grappling with more women entering the public space, thanks to education or jobs and the influx of migrants from villages who come seeking work.\n\nThe problem of gender-based violence is getting worse. National Crime Record Bureau statistics show crimes against women increased by 7.1percent nationwidesince 2010. There has been a rise in the number of incidents of rape recorded too. In 2011, 24,206 incidents were recorded, a rise of 9 percentfrom the previous year. More than half of the victimsare between 18 and 30 years of age.\n\nThe number of rapes in India is credible when you consider that so few people actually report the rape because it is considered a family disgrace\n\n\n\nMap Mindthenews.com 2012\n\nCultural Issues\n\nSocial norms, dowrys inheritance gender biased laws and violence against women\n\nSocial Norms:\n\nhttp://www.cwsnglobal.org/home_page2.html  The traits of good women doesnt allow to disclose the pain and turmoils to anyone, hence every women wanted to be the obedient, tolerant, sacrificing and hardworking women who had their lifes purpose is to live for the goodness of the family and to protect the family honor at any cost.\n\n\n\nMap from http://www.cwsnglobal.org/home_page2.html\n\nSocial Norms: Infanticide of female babies\n\nhttp://www.cnn.com/2013/01/12/world/asia/india-women-challenge/ By Sumnima Udas, CNN  January 12, 2013  \"They would cry and yell, 'What are you doing giving birth to a girl? Push her off the roof of the building, kill her! Why are you keeping her?'\" the 25-year-old mother says. Sumanjeet says people kept telling her to get an ultrasound check and abort all four of her daughters. They told her she wouldn't have enough money for a suitable dowry. A Thomson Reuters Foundation expert poll last year ranked India as the world's fourth most dangerous country for a woman, behind only Afghanistan, Congo and Pakistan.\n\nEven though the practice is outlawed, 300,000 to 600,000 female fetuses are aborted every year in India because of the preference for boys, according to a 2011 study by The Lancet. And the discrimination that begins while in the womb continues throughout a girl's life.\n\nWomen's rights activist and Supreme Court lawyer Kirti Singh says there is a marked difference between how many parents treat their daughters and their sons. She says girls aren't given the same kind of food, they're not educated in the same manner, and they're only raised to become someone's wife. From the time they are born -- or not born -- and continuing till late in life when they become wives or mothers, it's a vicious cycle of discrimination, and violence keeps on continuing.\n\n\"Sumanjeet says she sees it all the time. \"They send boys to good schools, they give them good food, nice clothes to wear. They treat them well. They say, 'Oh, it's my son.' To the daughter they say, 'Get the cow dung, sweep the floors. What will you do with an education?'\"\n\nNearly half of India's girls are married off before the age of 18. Sumanjeet herself was forced to marry a man 15 years older than her when she was just 12 years old. She says she didn't object to the marriage, as she had barely understood what was going on. Girls are also seen as a financial liability. Once they get married, they leave the house and are often required to take hefty dowries along with them which sometimes can cost a family's entire savings. The practice is banned by the government, but it's still as common as ever.\n\nhttp://global_india1.tripod.com/current.htm Although the countrys constitution says women have equal status to men, women are powerless and are mistreated inside and outside the home.\n\nIndia is a society where the male is greatly revered. Therefore women, especially the young girls, get very little respect and standing in this country. The women of the household are required to prepare the meal for the men, who eat most of the food.\n\nOnly after the males are finished eating, can the females eat. Typically the leftover food is meager, considering the families are poor and have little to begin with. This creates a major problem with malnutrition, especially for pregnant or nursing women.\n\nVery few women seek medical care while pregnant because it is thought of as a temporary condition. This is one main reason why Indias maternal and infant mortality rates are so high. Starting from birth, girls do not receive as much care and commitment from their parents and society as a boy would.\n\nFor example a new baby girl would only be breast fed for a short period of time, barely supplying her with the nutrients she needs. This is so that the mother can get pregnant as soon as possible in hopes of a son the next time\n\nAnother reason girls are not educated is because families are required to supply a chaste daughter to the family of her future husband.\n\nWith over two-thirds of teachers in India being men and students predominately male, putting daughters in school, where males surround them all day could pose a possible threat to their virginity\n\nA typical day for a woman in an agricultural position lasts from 4am to 8pm with only an hour break in the middle. Compared to a mans day, which is from 5am to 10am and then from 3pm to 5pm. Most women are overworked with no maternity leave or special breaks for those who are pregnant.\n\nPlus women do the majority of the manual labor that uses a lot of energy compared to the men who do mostly machine operating (Coonrod). Even though women work twice as many hours as men, the men say that women eat food and do nothing. This is mainly because the work the women perform does not require a lot of skill and are smaller tasks\n\nViolence & Dowrys\n\nhttp://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Dowry-deaths-One-woman-dies-every-hour/articleshow/22201659.cms One woman dies every hour due to dowry related reasons on an average in the country, which has seen a steady rise in such cases between 2007 and 2011, according to official data National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) figures state that 8,233 dowry deaths were reported in 2012 from various states. The statistics work out to one death per hour.National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) figures state that 8,233 dowry deaths were reported in 2012 from various states.\n\nThe statistics work out to one death per hour.The number of deaths under this category of crime against women were 8,618 in 2011 but the overall conviction rate was 35.8 per cent, slightly above the 32 per cent conviction rate recorded in the latest data for 2012. The number of dowry deaths in the country has seen a steady growth during the period between 2007 and 2011.\n\nWhile in 2007, 8,093 such deaths were reported, the numbers rose to 8,172 and 8,383 in 2008 and 2009 respectively. In 2010, 8,391 such deaths were reported, according to the NCRB. The agency is the central nodal department to collect and process crime statistics at the national level. Suman Nalwa, additional deputy commissioner of Delhi Police (Special Unit for Women and Children), said the problem is not only limited to the lower or middle class. Higher socio-economic strata is equally involved in such practices.\n\nThe dowry Prohibition act is meant to protect women but no one follows it\n\nEven the highly educated class of society do not say no to dowry. It runs deep into the social system,\" she said. The Dowry Prohibition Act of 1961, prohibits the request, payment or acceptance of a dowry, \"as consideration for the marriage\" and dowry here is defined as a gift demanded or given as a pre-condition for a marriage.\n\n\n\nMap from http://topyaps.com/saadi-com-anti-dowry-message\n\nGender Biased Inheritance Laws\n\nhttp://qz.com/224632/indian-women-will-never-be-equal-as-long-as-these-9-laws-remain-on-the-books/  June 25, 2014 written by Diksha Madhok Hindu laws of inheritance: Right now different religions have different personal laws that regulate inheritance, marriage, separation and guardianship in India. In the case of Hindus, the property of a woman who dies without a will is handled differently from that of a man. In the absence of spouse and children, the husbands heirs inherit the womans estate.\n\nEven if the deceased woman was ill treated in her marital home, her husbands mother or father will get her property instead of her own mother or father, says Kirti Singh, the family and property lawyer who authored the UN report .\n\nParsi laws of inheritance: Despite shrinking numbers, Parsis still penalize those who marry outside their communityand its allowed. A non-Parsi woman who is either a wife or widow of a Parsi cannot inherit. Their children still can, although those born to a Parsi woman married to a non-Parsi man are not considered part of the community.\n\nNo right to marital property: Upon separation or divorce, an Indian woman is the entitled only to maintenance from her husband. She has no right on the assets, such as house or commercial property, bought in her husbands name during the marriage. So if she leaves him or gets divorced, even years after the marriage, she is potentially without assets. Indian government policies do not consider the work done at home by a woman as having an economic value.\n\nhttp://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2014/03/02/the-right-to-inherit-isnt-working-for-indian-women-says-u-n-study/  Mar 2, 2014 By Ashok Sircar and Diana Fletschner\n\nIn 2005, the government of India amended its inheritance laws to ensure daughters enjoyed equal rights to inherit their parents land and property.\n\nBut the law seems to be having little impact.\n\nThe survey of more than 1,400 women and 360 men in agricultural districts with large numbers of women farmers in three Indian states, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, and Madhya Pradesh, found that just one in eight women whose parents own agricultural land inherit any of it.\n\nSimply, if women farm the land but dont own it, they are little more than migrant laborers tilling fields owned by others.\n\nWithout legal control over the land, or any documentation that they have rights to the ground they farm, they cant access institutional credit, such as bank loans.\n\nThe 2005, Hindu Succession Amendment Act giving sons and daughters equal rights to inheriting family land and property was heralded as an important step forward for Indias women.\n\nThe study published Sunday, is the first substantial evaluation of the impact of that amendment and indicates that many women have yet to benefit from the legal changes.\n\nTradition.\n\nIn India tradition dictates that sons inherit family property.\n\nTo ask for her share, many women fear, would cause conflict within the family.\n\nThat fear is well founded given that about half of men surveyed considered it wrong for women to inherit their parents land.\n\nProjected Outcomes\n\n1 Outcome 1 Women achieve equality the likelihood of this happening is very small and the short-term.\n\nPro: it would be amazing if the deep cultural traditions of India could be changed. Perhaps the inner net and other social media will help Indian women discover that women in other countries live a very different way and will help women rise above their current status. The impact would be significant. The birth rate would decline because women no longer have to have four or five children in an attempt to have a male child.\n\nCon: the men would have to give up some of their power.\n\n2 Outcomes 2 nothing changes and women are still the underclass in India\n\nPro: a cheap labor source is available in India for other nations to exploit continually and unfairly. Long-standing cultures are followed and the cultural influence of a patriarchal society of India continue. Who is the national community to dictate how women are treated in this country? There is a cultural tradition that spans generations that has a validity that an outsider simply cannot understand.\n\nCon: women's rights are trounced upon for another generation or two. Women live like indentured servants and are raped and tortured by men. Women are not educated at the same rate as men and the cycle of poverty in India continues. Female babies are continually aborted to the point where India has no women laughed because they have murdered so many.\n\n3 Outcome 3 the international community comes in and tells India that they simply have to change their ways\n\nPro: more laws are changed and women have more rights. The gross domestic product of India goes up because so many more women have jobs. When you do not utilize the work of 50% of the population your GDP will never be high. Women make great strides in every aspect of their lives take control and become on equal footing with men in all areas Erie it women are educated at a higher rate and achieve great things. Medical facilities treat women equally and more more women survive. Because female fetuses are not aborted any more women will be 50% of the population again.\n\nCon: the international community has no right to go into India and tell them how to live their lives. Is the height of gull to assume that your way is the right way. The country of India starts a war against those who would try to change their ways and because they out number other countries they are successful and many people die.\n\n4 Outcome 4 the women of India rise up and demand their rights\n\nPro: if, like in the United States, the women of India demand their own rights it will mean more because they fought for it themselves. Everything will change and women will realize the control they have over men based on nothing else but their sheer numbers. If it becomes the social norm eventually men will simply back off and leave them alone.\n\nCon: because India is such a corrupt place women attempt to retrieve their rights only to be knocked down by a corrupt police force and government that doesn't care about what they want. Because so many of the higher-ups in India are male their little rebellion is knocked down and millions of women die.\n\nPossible solutions/ Obstacles to the solution\n\npeople are arguing that India is changing slowly and women are slowly gaining their rights back. There are high profile women in the political parties in India that are women and some women have public offices even in rural areas.\n\nhttp://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/2012/12/2012122991735307545.html Activists argue that the rising number of women parliamentarians and the presence of many high profile women in India's political parties and public offices will remain only cosmetic if effective laws and mindsets are not altered to safeguard ordinary women. \"While our Western sisters burned bras in the 1960s for equality, India's women are now taking to the streets to demand their right to walk freely without fear from men,\" says Shweta Andrews, a researcher based in Delhi.\n\nhttp://www.cwsnglobal.org/home_page2.html It was noticed that in 2000s and aftermath the gender based violence was made more visible and women continued their protest and legislations were enacted favoring womens rights such as the Protection Women from Domestic Violence Act 2005, Protection of Sexual Harassment at Workplace 2013 and the resent Anti-Rape law 2013.\n\nhttp://www.indiacelebrating.com/social-issues/gender-inequality-in-india/ Though every year government starts various schemes and programs apart from existing ones for the benefit and empowerment of women but on the ground there are not enough visible changes.\n\nThe change will appear only when the mind set of Indian society would change; when the society would start treating male and female on equal footing and when a girl would not be considered as a burden.\n\nLegal and Constitutional Safeguards against Gender Inequality\n\nIndian Constitution provides for positive efforts to eliminate gender inequality; the Preamble to the Constitution talks about goals of achieving social, economic and political justice to everyone and to provide equality of status and of opportunity to all its citizens. Further, women have equal right to vote in our political system.\n\nArticle 15 of the Constitution provides for prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex also apart from other grounds such as religion, race, caste or place of birth. Article 15(3) authorizes the Sate to make any special provision for women and children.\n\nOther than these Constitutional safeguards, various protective Legislations have also been passed by the Parliament to eliminate exploitation of women and to give them equal status in society.\n\nSati (Prevention) Act, 1987 was enacted to abolish and make punishable the inhuman custom of Sati;\n\nthe Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 to eliminate the practice of dowry;\n\nthe Special Marriage Act, 1954 to give rightful status to married couples who marry inter-caste or inter-religion;\n\nPre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) Bill (introduced in Parliament in 1991, passed in 1994 to stop female infanticide and many more such Acts. Furthermore, the Parliament time to time brings out amendments to existing laws in order to give protection to women according to the changing needs of the society\n\nSection 304-B was added to the Indian Penal Code, 1860 to make dowry-death or bride-burning a specific offence punishable with maximum punishment of life imprisonment.\n\nSo there are varied legislative safeguards and protection mechanisms for women but the ground reality is very different.\n\nDespite all these provisions women are still being treated as second rate citizens in our country; men are treating them as an object to fulfill their carnal desires; crimes against women are at alarming stage; the practice of dowry is still widely prevalent; female infanticide is a norm in homes.\n\nHow to Eliminate Gender Inequality\n\nThe list of legislations as well as types of discriminations or inequalities may go on but the real change will only come when the mentality of men will change; when the male species of human beings would start treating women as equal and not subordinate or weaker to them.\n\nIn fact not only men but women also need to change their mindset as through cultural conditioning they have also become part of the same exploitative system of patriarchy and are playing a supportive role in furthering mens agenda of dominating women.\n\nTherefore, what is needed is the movement for Womens empowerment where women can become economically independent and self-reliant; where they can fight their own fears and go out in the world fearless; where they can snatch their rights from the clutches of men and they dont have to ask for them; where women have good education, good career, ownership of property and above all where they have freedom of choice and also the freedom to make their own decisions without the bondages of age old saying of Manu.\n\nLets hope and wish that our participative democracy, in times to come, and with the efforts of both women and men, would be able to found solutions to the problem of gender inequality and would take us all towards our cherished dream of a truly modern society in both thought and action.\n\nPossible Obstacles\n\nrealistically there are far more obstacles and solutions in India. There is a very long tradition of a patriarchal society. Men are simply charge of everything. From the time a woman is born they are under their father's care and then their husbands care. Women never truly owned them selves\n\nObstacles:  http://www.fsdinternational.org/country/india/weissues Gender Equity Issues in India\n\nGender discrimination continues to be an enormous problem within Indian society. Traditional patriarchal norms have relegated women to secondary status within the household and workplace. This drastically affects women's health, financial status, education, and political involvement.\n\nWomen are commonly married young, quickly become mothers, and are then burdened by stringent domestic and financial responsibilities.\n\nThey are frequently malnourished since women typically are the last member of a household to eat and the last to receive medical attention. Additionally, only 54 percent of Indian women are literate as compared to 76 percent of men.\n\nWomen receive little schooling, and suffer from unfair and biased inheritance and divorce laws.\n\nThese laws prevent women from accumulating substantial financial assets, making it difficult for women to establish their own security and autonomy.\n\nIn Rajasthan, all of these problems are aggravated by high levels of seasonal migration. For many men in Rajasthan, migration is required since rural parts of Rajasthan often lack a sufficient economy to provide income for a family year-round. Women are commonly left behind to care and provide for the entire household.\n\nThis is increasingly difficult because it is estimated that an average woman's wage is 30 percent lower than a man's wage working in a similar position. While these mothers work, they must also tend to domestic responsibilities.\n\nThis formula for supporting Rajasthani families leaves little resource for the growth and development of women's rights and education levels.\n\nA strong \"son preference\" exists in the region, as it does throughout the country, and high rates of female infanticide and female feticide plague the area.\n\nIn 2001, for every 1,000 males living in Rajasthan there were only 922 women (Marthur et. al., 2004). Having sons is economically advantageous to families due to cultural institutions; these institutions serve to drastically devalue the roles women play in the traditional society. Women continue to struggle to achieve equal status to men, making gender equity an issue of particular importance for Rajasthan.\n\nObstacle Poverty: While the economy is growing rapidly, almost 800 million citizens (79.9 percent) still live on less than $2 each day.\n\nObstacle Health: Water tables throughout the country have collapsed, public education is floundering, and HIV infects more people than any other nation in the world. With 30 percent of the population classified as malnourished, common human rights violations, and the rural sectors becoming increasingly poor, India is in need of community-level support.\n\nControversies related and other important info:\n\ninteresting facts to use in the paper to highlight gender inequality in India\n\nhttp://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-news-india/more-gender-inequality-in-india-than-pak-bangla-un/ India ranks130 out of 155 countries in the Gender Inequality Index (GII) for 2014, way behind Bangladesh and Pakistan that rank 111 and 121 respectively, according to data in the United National Development Programmes latest Human Development Report (HDR) 2015.\n\nAmong South Asian countries, India fares better than only Afghanistan which is at 152.\n\nThe index captures inequalities in gender-specific indicators: reproductive health measured by maternal mortality ratio and adolescent birth rates, empowerment quantified by share of parliamentary seats and attainment in education, and economic activity measured by labour market participation rate.\n\nPakistan and Bangladesh have a lower Human Development Index (HDI) than India and yet perform better on gender equality as measured by GII. India is placed 130 out of 188 on the Human Development Index (HDI) with Bangladesh at 142 and Pakistan at 147.\n\nBut with respect to each parameter on the gender index, India lags behind both its neighbours. Consider this:\n\n*Merely 12.2 per cent of parliamentary seats are held by women in India as against 19.7 in Pakistan and 20 in Bangladesh.\n\n* India is also beset with a high maternal mortality rate of 190 deaths per 100,000 live births as compared to 170 pregnancy-related deaths per 100,000 births in both Bangladesh and Pakistan.\n\n* In percentage of women receiving secondary education, Bangladesh at 34 per cent far outperforms India at 27 per cent.\n\n* On labour force participation rate for women, Bangladesh is at 57 per cent, India is at 27 per cent.\n\n* In all the above indexes, Indias performance is way below the South Asian average.\n\nThe only parameter where India fares slightly better is the adolescent birth rate, which is the number of births per 1000 women aged 15 to 19 years. A lower adolescent birth rate indicates a female population that is more in control of its choices when it comes to marrying and conceiving late. On this scale, Indias figures are much better than that of Bangladesh as well as the South Asian average, though Pakistans record is marginally better than Indias.\n\nUNDP officials state that over the last couple of years, Indias GII values have improved slightly from 0.61 to 0.563. This is mainly due to improvements in maternal mortality rate and womens representation in parliaments in this period though other indicators have remained stagnant.\n\nThe HDR 2015, which is focused on the issue of work, also documents a global drop in female labour force participation rate, which is the proportion of working-age population in paid employment or looking for paid work. This is owing mainly to the steep reduction for India, from 35 per cent women in 1990 to 27 per cent in 2013, and China from 73 per cent to 64 per cent in the same period, said Yuri Afanasiev, UNDP resident representative in India.\n\nAccording to Renana Jhabwala, national coordinator, Self-Employed Womens Association, womens workforce participation, by virtue of its invisibility, is largely under-counted in much of the government surveys.For instance, these surveys fail to capture details on large number of women in agriculture since land is in the name of the man. Due to this invisibility in official data, such women are often bereft of benefits such loans or seeds which the land-holding men are eligible for. This creates in India what we call a sticky floor situation where a majority of women cannot rise above a certain level of earnings, skills and benefits. It is the opposite of the what the West refers to as glass ceiling, said Jhabwala.\n\nhttp://www.indiacelebrating.com/social-issues/gender-inequality-in-india/ The unfortunate part of gender inequality in our society is that the women too, through, continued socio-cultural conditioning, have accepted their subordinate position to men. And they are also part and parcel of same patriarchal system.\n\nExtreme poverty and lack of education are also some of the reasons for womens low status in society. Poverty and lack of education derives countless women to work in low paying domestic service, organized prostitution or as migrant laborers. Women are not only getting unequal pay for equal or more work but also they are being offered only low skill jobs for which lower wages are paid. This has become a major form of inequality on the basis of gender.\n\nEducating girl child is still seen as a bad investment because she is bound to get married and leave her paternal home one day. Thus, without having good education women are found lacking in present days demanding job skills; whereas, each years High School and 10+2 standard results show that girls are always doing better than boys. This shows that parents are not spending much after 10+2 standard on girl child and thats why they lack in job market.\n\nNot only in education, in case of family food habits, it is the male child who gets all the nutritious and choicest foods while the girl child gets whatever is left behind after the male members have taken their meals or the food which is low in both quality and nutrition. And this becomes a major health issue in her later years. One of the main reasons for the high incidences of difficult births and anemia in women is the poor quality of food which a girl always gets either in her paternal home or in her in-laws as also is the excessive workload that they are made to bear from their early childhood.\n\nUNDPs Gender Inequality Index- 2014: Indias ranking is 127 out of 152 countries in the List. This ranking is only above Afghanistan as far as SAARC countries are concerned.\n\nWorld Economic Forums Global Gender Gap Index- 2014: Indias ranks at 114 in the list of 142 countries of the world. This Index examines gender gap in four major areas:\n\nIndias position on these indicators was as follows:\n\nEconomic participation and opportunity:134th\n\nEducational achievements:126th\n\nHealth and Life expectancy:141st\n\nPolitical empowerment:15th\n\nThe data shows that despite the law in place viz Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques (Regulation and Prevention of Misuse) Act, 1994 sex selective abortion is still on the rise. One estimate done by MacPherson shows that more than 100000 illegal abortions are being performed every year in India mainly for the reason that the featus is of girl child. Due to this, there is an alarming trend which has come to the notice in 2011 census report; the report shows Child Sex-Ratio (i.e. sex-ratio of children between the age group 0 to 6) at 919 which is 8 points lesser than the 2001 data of 927. The data indicates that sex-selective abortion is increasing in our country.\n\nhttp://www.fsdinternational.org/country/india/weissues The exploitation of immigrant and child labor, the caste system, and a lack of education and healthcare are just a few of the human rights issues that deeply affect India today.\n\nIn Rajasthan, the Indian government lacks the infrastructure and resources to eliminate the overwhelming rights abuses levied on lower castes who live in extreme poverty as agricultural workers, miners, and servants. India is an entire world on its own. Its combination of spiritual depth, unparalleled physical beauty, and cultural diversity makes the country one of the most alluring destinations on the planet. India's development is another story.\n\nWhile the economy is growing rapidly, almost 800 million citizens (79.9 percent) still live on less than $2 each day.\n\nGrassroots and government efforts are making great strides to rectify poverty-related issues; however, the severity of the problem is astonishing.\n\nWater tables throughout the country have collapsed, public education is floundering, and HIV infects more people than any other nation in the world.\n\nWith 30 percent of the population classified as malnourished, common human rights violations, and the rural sectors becoming increasingly poor, India is in need of community-level support.\n\n\"Huffington Post 5 Myths about Indian Poverty.\" Huffington Post. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Huffington Post India.\" Huffington Post. N.p., n.d. Web. 6 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"India and Poverty.\" Poverty around the World. N.p., n.d. Web.\n\n\"India: Shock Dowry Deaths Increase Revealed.\" Sky News. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Life for Women in India.\" CBS News Presents India Perspectives. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Caste System in India.\" Caste System in India, Indian Caste System, Caste in India. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Caste System in India for Dummies.\" Dummies. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Caste System in India.\" Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"The Caste System of India.\" About. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Findings on the Worst Forms of Child Labor in India.\" DOL India. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"National Geographic Presents the Caste System in India.\" National Geographic. N.p., May 2013. Web. 6 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"One Woman Dies Every Hour In Dowry Death in India.\" UK Telegraph World News. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Poverty and Its Causes in India.\" My India. N.p., 09 June 2013. Web. 11 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Poverty in India.\", Poverty Rate in India, Population below Poverty Line, Poverty Reduction in India, Urban Poverty In India, Rural Poverty In India, Indian Problems. N.p., n.d. Web. 7 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Poverty in India: Causes, Effects, Injustice & Exclusion.\" Poverties.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Poverty in India.\" Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 6 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Rural Poverty Portal.\" Rural Poverty Portal. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2016.\n\n\"Untouchables Face Violence and Discrimination.\" National Geographic India. N.p., Nov. 2014. Web. 7 Apr. 2016."}
{"Thesis/Outline Tutorial": "Thesis Statement: For millions of young people rising college costs are putting the American dream on hold or out of reach, the United States government needs to pay the full tuition for every high school graduate to go to college.\n\nIntro: College tuition and fees have increased 1120% since records began in 1978, far outpacing the price of inflation. (Bloomberg)\n\nBody: The United States, as a whole, needs to find a way to make college more affordable for everybody.\n\nCollege by Income\n\nThere is a vast inequality between the have and have-nots. We need to further narrow educational inequalities by understanding that these inequalities exist\n\nIt is a well-known fact that children from affluent families tend to do better in school.\n\nYet the income divide has received far less attention from policy makers and government officials than gaps in student accomplishment by race.\n\nAffirmative action is all but dead in United States universities. Lost in the debate of affirmative action is a simple fact, income not race, is a real determining factor in higher education today. Millions of kids are not attending college. Not because they are unqualified, but because they simply cannot afford it.\n\nFamilies that earn in the top 25% of income in the United States send 80% oftheir children to college. Of the bottom 25% of income earners in the US less than 10% of the children go to college\n\nFamily income is the new predictor of a childs future achievement. Educationshould be the great equalizer in American society. Education can lift less advantaged children and improve their chances for lifetime success as adults. The achievement gap between rich and poor is the new racism in the United States\n\nCollege as a Culture\n\nThere are major advantages for students from families with more economic resources.\n\nWealthy parents can invest more time and money in weekend sports, ballet, music lessons, math tutors and weekend SAT prep classes\n\nWhy are children from privileged backgrounds more successful in school? Why do these advantages persist over time? These are complex moral dilemmas. Over time, cultural and social differences combine to preserve privilege across many generations. Unequal school financing across school districts is also unfair.\n\nReasons We Need More College Grads As a nation, we need more college graduates in order to stay competitive in the global economy\n\n85% of Forbes' 2012 America's 400 Richest People list were college grads.\n\nBased on economy and job projections calculated by Georgetown University, in 2018, approximately 63% of jobs will require some college education or a degree\n\nBetter for Society as a Whole: People who do not go to college are more likely to be unemployed and, therefore, place undue financial strain on society, making a college degree worth it to taxpayers.\n\nIn Apr. 2013 the unemployment rate for college graduates over 25 years old was 3.6% compared to 7.5% forhigh school graduates. The median income for families headed by a bachelor's degree holder was $100,096 in 2011more than double than that for a family headed by a high school graduate.\n\nYoung people \"not engaged in employment/education or training,\" are called NEET by the US govt., are more likely to receive welfare than youth in general, they are more likely to commit crimes, and they are more likely to receive public health care, all costing the government extra money.\n\nIn total, each NEET youth between the ages of 16 and 25 impose a $51,350 financial burden on society per year, and after the person is 25 he or she will impose a financial burden of $699,770.\n\nThe total cost of 6.7% of the US population being NEET youth is $4.75 trillion, which is comparable to half of the US public debt.\n\nSo it simply makes financial sense for the US government to finance educationfor everybody.\n\nCollege debt Is Crippling the Nation\n\nOn Feb. 3, 2012, an advisory council to the Federal Reserve also warned that the growth in student debt \"has parallels to the housing crisis.\" As of Jan. 2013, the rate of default on student loans hit 15.1%--a nearly 22% increase since 2007.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2012 the number of 25-year-olds with student debt increased from 25% to 43%. Their average loan balance was $20,326 in 2012--a 91% increase since 2003.\n\nAccording to the US Congress Joint Economic Committee, approximately 60% of 011 college graduates have student loan debt balances equal to 60% of their annual income.\n\nstudent loan debt now tops credit card debt among Americans.\n\nprices are rising rapidly for higher education because of the predominant role of third-party payments -- federal student loans and grants, state government support for institutions and students, private philanthropic gifts and endowment income.\n\nWhen some else is paying a lot of the bills, students are less sensitive to the price, thus allowing the colleges to care less about keeping prices under control. And the nonprofit nature of institutions reduces incentives for colleges and universities to be efficient.\n\nConclusion so what can we do? The government already subsidizes education for many people the time has come for the American government to simply pay for every single high school senior to go to college, in the long run it will make the entire nation richer. Make college not part of the American dream but part of the American reality.\n\n\"...The richest nation on Earth has never allocated enough resources to build sufficient schools, to compensate adequately its teachers, and to surround them with the prestige our work justifies. We squander funds on highways, on the frenetic pursuit of recreation, on the overabundance of overkill armament, but we pauperize education.\" From a speech given by Martin Luther Kingon March 14, 1964, when he accepted the John Dewey Award from the United Federation of Teachers"}
{"The Rising Cost of College": "For millions of young people rising college costs are putting the American dream on hold or out of reach, the United States government needs to pay the full tuition for every high school graduate to go to college. College tuition and fees have increased 1120% since records began in 1978, far outpacing the price of inflation. (Bloomberg). The United States needs to find a way to make college more affordable for everybody.\n\nThere is a vast inequality between the haves and have-nots. We need to further narrow educational inequalities by understanding that these inequalities exist. The income divide has received far less attention from policymakers and government officials than gaps in student accomplishment by race. Doing well in high school isn't enough to get to the next level, college. Affirmative action is all but dead in United States universities. Lost in the debate of affirmative action is a simple fact, income not race, is a real determining factor in higher education today. Millions of kids are not attending college. Not because they are unqualified, but because they simply cannot afford it. Families that earn in the top 25% of income in the United States send 80% of their children to college. Of the bottom 25% of income earners in the US less than 10% of the children go to college according to USA Today College Planner. Family income is the new predictor of a child's future achievement. Education should be the great equalizer in American society. Education can lift less advantaged children and improve their chances for lifetime success as adults. The achievement gap between rich and poor is the new racism in the United States. Why are children from privileged backgrounds more successful in school? Why do these advantages persist over time? These are complex moral dilemmas. Over time, cultural and social differences combine to preserve privilege across many generations. Unequal school financing across school districts is also unfair. There are major advantages for students from wealthy Bainbridge island families with more economic resources. Wealthy parents can invest more time and money in weekend sports, ballet, music lessons, math tutors and weekend SAT prep classes. As kids get older parents try to position their children for the best colleges, which is even more essential for success in today's economy. As a nation, we need more college graduates in order to stay competitive in a global economy. Based on economy and job projections calculated by Georgetown University in 2018, 63% of jobs will require some college education or a degree. A whopping 85% of Forbes 2012 America's 400 richest people list were college grads.\n\nCollege graduation is better for society as a whole. People who do not go to college are significantly more likely to be unemployed placing an undue financial strain on society, making a college degree worth it to the taxpayers. In April of 2013 the unemployment rate for college graduates over 25 years old was 3.6% compared to 7.5% for high school graduates. The median income for families headed by a bachelors degree holder was $100,096 in 2011, more than double than that for a family headed by a high school graduate. Young people not engaged in employment, education or training are called NEET by the US government. NEET are more likely to receive welfare, commit crimes, and receive public healthcare than other youth. All of these things costs the government and taxpayers money. 6.7% of the US population is considered NEET youth. In total, each NEET youth between the ages of 16 and 25 cost American society $51,350 a year, over their lifetime each will impose a financial burden of $699,770. The total cost to US taxpayers is $4.75 trillion dollars, which is comparable to half the US public debt. It simply makes financial sense for the US government to finance education for everybody.\n\nIn many countries college is simply free to attend. Germany, and many other European countries, view higher education as more of a public than a private benefit. They can afford this for a couple reasons. First, they simply agree to pay higher taxes. Second, Germany has a lower percentage of students go on to college than we have here in the U.S. Here, particularly at public schools, college costs have risen as a response to lower levels of public support from states, and increasing numbers of students going to school. Sweden devised to pay for higher education. For example, whereas in the US parents are expected to help pay for their children's college education, in Sweden parental income levels are just not part of the equation. Students are viewed as adults, responsible for their own finances. As a result \"levels of student support are based on students' own income, rather than that of their parents,\" Compare that to countries like Germany, where any aid from the state agency that doles it out, known as BAfG, is premised on parental income. In the US it's the same deal. In Sweden, the entire system is aimed at severing the financial link between parents and young adults. This is the key. While Swedish students end up with relatively high levels of debt, the monthly costs of carrying that debt are pretty cheap. It's about 3.8% of estimated average monthly income of new graduates. Interest rates are low. They're set by the government and maintained through subsidies. And the length of repayment is long: 25 years or until the student turns 60. In other words, the Swedish system of student debt is financially manageable and sets students up to begin their lives as viable adults separate from their parents.\n\nBut its important to remember that a high-cost, debt-based system was not always the norm here. Just 20 years ago, fewer than half of graduates borrowed for college compared to 7 in 10 graduates today. And just 30 years ago, you could finance a years worth of tuition at a minimum-wage summer job. But due to deep and unrelenting state budget cuts, inadequate grant aid, and poor targeting of some of the subsidies we do provide, that time seems as foreign as Germanys system does today\n\nCollege that is crippling the nation. Feb. 3, 2012, an advisory council to the Federal Reserve also warned that the growth in student debt \"has parallels to the housing crisis.\" As of Jan. 2013, the rate of default on student loans hit 15.1%a nearly 22% increase since 2007. Between 2003 and 2012 the number of 25-year-olds with student debt increased from25% to 43%. Their average loan balance was $20,326 in 2012a 91% increase since 2003. According to the US Congress Joint Economic Committee, approximately 60% of 2011 college graduates have student loan debt balances equaling 60% of their annual income. Student loan debt now tops credit card debt among Americans. Prices are rising rapidly for higher education because of the predominant role of third-party payments. Federal student loans and grants, state government support for institutions and endowment income. When somebody else is paying the bills students are less sensitive to the price, allowing colleges to care less about keeping prices under control. Because universities are nonprofit in nature it reduces incentives for college and universities to be efficient. The government subsidizes education for many people already. The time is come from the American government to simply pay for every single high school senior to go to college, in the long run it will make the entire nation richer. Let's make college not part of the American dream but part of the American reality. High levels of debt are increasingly impeding young people from purchasing cars or homes and all the other trappings of adulthood. With American students, recent graduates, and their families staggering under a pile of debt it is becoming clear the US must change how it pays for college. If the US government pays for college ending college debts, it is a solution for an age-old problem. It's society's way of financing a restructuring period for the currently unproductive assets it will depend on in the future: young people.\n\n\"...The richest nation on Earth has never allocated enough resources to build sufficient schools, to compensate adequately its teachers, and to surround them with the prestige our work justifies. We squander funds on highways, on the frenetic pursuit of recreation, on the overabundance of overkill armament, but we pauperize education.\" From a speech given by Martin Luther King on March 14, 1964, when he accepted the John Dewey Award from the United Federation of Teachers"}
{"Homework Bottom Billion": "1. Why don't reforming Bottom Billion nations attract more capital investment?\n\nPeople with money to investigations are not willing to look past the high risk involved. There is a rating system from 0 to 100 and many of the poorest nations are rated less than 20 and most investors will not invest in anything less than 40. Poor government control and policy over the years have made people too scared to invest is considered to high risk. People simply went to Asia and gave up on Africa.\n\n2. Define capital flight and why it is happening in Bottom Billion Countries.\n\nCapital flight is when money made by people inside of the country is kept outside the country in another country's bank. The example they use was coffee if you get $1000 for your coffee you will keep $500 offshore someplace. This means that people inside these developing nations don't believe enough in the economy of their own nation to put their money into it. People blame corruption and government policies as the reasons they keep money offshore. This\n\n3. How does migration impact these countries?\n\nThe people that can make the mostly in the poorest countries are the educated population. People with skills and education leave at a far greater rate than uneducated workers. The workers that are left over that don't leave are a drain on the nation and things only get worse."}
{"Is College Worth It? For Some Graduates NO It Isn't": "1. What are three of the reasons why people are asking the question, \"Is college worth it?\" 1. Some college graduates are finding it difficult to get a job at all 2. Some college graduates get a job but they are underemployed 3. College debt is overwhelming and makes their life overly hard\n\n2. According to this first article, is college worth it? How so? (Make sure to provide specific evidence from the article, such as the cost of not attending college) according to the article graduating college will double your average salary over somebody who has a high school diploma. Not going to college will cost you $500,000 in your lifetime of income you could have earned that didn't. The unemployment rate for people with a college degree is 3% far below the national average. College graduates have seen their salaries go up to 32.60 and people with a high school but, there salaries have actually gone down 5% to 16.50.\n\n3. Why has the \"pay gap\" between college graduates and non-graduates been rising lately? (This comes from the paragraph that begins with \"The average hourly wage...\" There is a pay gap between college graduates and nongraduates because there is not enough college graduates for the spaces available in the job market. The average wages per college graduate have risen 1% while wages for noncollege graduates have actually fallen 5%.\n\n4. What does the author argue in the the last paragraph of the first article? The author makes a pretty good case that the United States has had an educational system that requires children to have 13 years of school for very long time. Becoming a high school graduate has been enough to assure you a job of some kind in United States but this simply is not true anymore. The new standard in the US is 15 to 17 years of education. Simply stated the new standard of education is at least an Associates degree if not a bachelors degree for every American citizen. He believes that this will become the new standard in United States in the next few years.\n\nFor Some Graduates\n\n5. Is college worth it for everyone? (Discuss using the data presented in the second paragraph)\n\nNo college is not worth it for everyone according to this article. Many people find when they get out of college that the position that they fill in society could easily have been filled by someone with only a high school diploma. Many people are underemployed and feel trapped by their dead-end job and their college debt.\n\n6. What does Michelle Polyakov's current situation teach us about college? Michelle did everything right and went to college and graduated from a major university yet when she got out of school she found that she could not get a teaching job right away. Michelle also has significant college debt and she is forced to live at home because she cannot afford to live on her own. Just because you graduate from college it isn't a golden ticket that will assure you the job of your dreams you may still be underemployed are not employed at all after graduation there are no guarantees.\n\n7. How long does it take the average college graduate to \"recoup the cost\" of college? In 2013 it will take someone 10 years to recoup the cost of college according to the article.\n\n8. What does the ROI (return on investment) prediction assume? How can this be misleading? The ROI assumes that you graduate within four years. This is very misleading information because the average student takes six years to graduate therefore it is a misleading number.\n\n9. What statistics are given in the second last paragraph (beginning with \"The broader...\") about college? Of the students who go to college 40% will not graduate at all and 15% of college graduates are in jobs that could have been filled without ever have going to college at all it could be filled by a high school graduate.\n\n10. What did you find most interesting about either of these two articles? Explain...\n\nI found the second article more interesting. I have every intention of going to college but I fully realize that it is not for everyone. I am willing to eat Ramen noodles and live at home to save money but not everyone thinks it's worth it. I think having a trade of some kind is a perfectly good way to make a living and there is a stigma attached to not going to college, especially here on Bainbridge Island. The real test is 10 years from now will your life be easier or harder if you choose not to go to college, chances are it is you have a strong family support you won't ever need it. I just want to work in a field that I don't know enough about to ever get a job in so I have to go to college."}
{"The Apes of the Caves": "When I was younger I was taken from my family and sent to a cold gray building in Washington State in the United States. I was devastated and scared. I felt so alone without my parents and my brothers and sisters. At least I had one brother with me. Without him I would've felt even worse. The scientist wanted me for an experiment to see if they could make me talk. I was the smartest of the 15 of us that they took from our home in Asia. I did not know the other apes very well at the beginning. We lived far apart in the forest. Weeks later when I started to understand what they were saying to me I said, hello I am an ape, and my name is Gerald. I didn't actually use words, but my hands, the humans call it sign language.\n\nYears went by and I became the head of the 15 original apes. I have a brother named Roy that helps me with my daily duties. Roy is smaller than I am so he can never be in charge. That's how it works with us, you have to be big to be in charge. Roy's arms are smaller and his chest is less hairy than mine. My wife is named Lucy. Lucy is shy and timid around the humans but when we are alone she is a chatterbox. Lucy's hair is much longer than mine and has a red tinge in the fluorescent lights. The air inside never seems to circulate and is always too warm for us. The Institute smelled like the humans not like the forest where I am from. I missed the smell of earth and trees every day. There are 12 other apes who are my closest friends. We live at the Chimpanzee and Human Communication Institute in Ellensburg, Washington. The Institute is very close to Central Washington University. In 1924 there is a famous report of fighting between miners and the creature they later would name Bigfoot. I guess that was just us trying to escape the Institute.\n\nThe Central Washington University Chimpanzee And Human Communication Institute was set up as a sanctuary for chimpanzees to learn American Sign Language. The humans were very nice and humane in our treatment and they tried to improve our living conditions for captivity every day. There were only three people that we saw every day. One was an old man who always wore a hat and had hair coming out of his nose and ears. There was a tiny Asian woman who had short black hair and wore huge glasses that made her eyes look like fishes. The janitor was the third person we saw every day. He was fat and short and completely bald. The Institute was a great place for apes to live. Or at least that's what the brochure said that they sell in their gift shop. Chimpanzees are closely related to human beings and share 98.77% of the human genetic makeup. I guess it was the 1.33% that made us want to leave the Institute. The plan came together one day when a visitor to the Institute was talking to her friend and I overheard them. The bigger one said, I can't wait for our trip to the Ape caves in Amboy next weekend the shorter friend said, Is this it another place like this? Are there really apes there? The bigger lady laughed and said, I hope so the ones here are so cute.\n\nAfter that conversation that day I started to make a detailed plan with my other apes to go there. We started swiping maps from the tourist every time they came by and eventually found one that clearly said Ape Caves on Mt. St. Helens near Hill Bridge Rd., Amboy, WA. Now that we had an address and a map with directions we just had to get there. According to the map it was 184 miles away. The caretakers had no idea we knew how to use their computers and often left us alone with them. I Googled the directions and my wife Lucy started hiding food so we could take it on our long trip. Lucy was very sneaky. She was so shy that no one thought she would ever be brave enough to steal anything. That is why she never got caught, people underestimate Lucy all the time.\n\nLate one night we snuck out of our cages we used the sign language the humans taught us to communicate silently so we wouldn't wake up our caretakers. We snuck out of the Central Washington University's Chimpanzee and Human Communication Institute and never went back.\n\nAfter sneaking out of the University the fresh air outside was wonderful. We stuck closely to the main highway route out of town following the main roads until we could not see any buildings at all. The road noise frightened the younger apes. The cars and trucks were spewing foul-smelling smoke that made us ill. The first night was easy we were all so scared of getting caught that we just ran all night. We were galloping like horses. We followed the roads that the cars used so we wouldn't get lost, that was Lucy's idea, and it worked. There were 15 of us all together. All that running made us extra hungry so our food only lasted the first five days. The only thing I missed from the Institute was the smell of popcorn popping in the microwave. The janitor would sometimes feed me popcorn when nobody was looking. My son Roy wanted to steal from the humans and I told him I didn't want anything to do with humans ever again. I was going to teach them how to live off the land. I didn't know anything about living off the land but the nice lady that taught me sign language left her laptop open and I Googled it before we left. It was not a good idea to let the others know I did not have a clue how to be away from the Institute, it would just worry them.\n\nI learned years later that there was a famous report about a skirmish between miners and Bigfoot. We all laughed like hyenas about it. That was just us running away. We followed the Snoqualmie National Forest Road and came up upon a bunch of miners digging in a hole. They were pretty quiet for such big humans and we didn't see them right away. Once they saw us I think they were surprised as we were and we both ran away. Anyway I guess they told some newspaper people about it and people are still looking for us in the forest.\n\nWe had walked for weeks and were now following the National Forest Road 25. I had forgotten what real trees look like. Oregon had huge green trees with leaves the color of the sun. Some of the trees were tall and thin pine trees. My favorite trees were the ones filled with the delicious bugs to eat. The air was so clean and fresh outside I felt healthy and strong for the first time since we had arrived. Once we got to Route 90 at the Swift Reservoir my son Roy said, hey look up there I see a sign it says Ape Caves ahead follow Yale Bridge Road! Everyone was so excited they all started running. The sound of all of us running was deafening. The loud noises from our running made the birds fly away in every direction.\n\nThe Ape Caves were beautiful. We arrived in the middle of a sunny day. The outside of the caves were gray and brown with green foliage covering every inch. The air smelled like pine trees and sap.There were huge boulders that were gray with moss growing on them. The air seemed wet somehow even though it wasn't raining. When you breathe in the air you could almost drink it. We learned once we got there that the Ape Caves do not contain any other Apes at all. The Ape Caves are just a name humans gave the area. They are actually a two-mile long lava tube formed when Mount Saint Helens erupted about 2,000 years ago. I learned that from the information at the visitor center. The Ape Caves are one of the longest lava tubes in the world measuring 2.5 miles and are completely dark. The tour guide said that humans need to bring a very bright flashlight and the temperatures are in the low 40s, even in the middle of the summer. We had come so far and even though we were disappointed we went and explored the caves anyway. The caves were wet and cold. It felt like the temperature must have dropped 10 every few feet we walked. The glow of light from the outside went further and further away as we hiked in. The walls were smoothed and wet and smelled like rotting water. The water coming down the walls tasted like Earth and was very cold.\n\nMy wife Lucy said, I think I found a secret tunnel. We pushed through some heavy lava walls and sure enough there was a beautiful oasis right behind the dark walls. There were swinging trees and way off in the distance there was a pool of water. We could barely believe how lucky we were. It was so much warmer here in the oasis. The new oasis smelled like a warm summer day. We named our new home Chimp Haven. We worked really hard to build houses in the trees and gather enough berry bushes to plant food for many years to come. We pushed the secret door back and closed ourselves off from the humans forever. Many of the apes had children including Lucy and I. We built homes just like we had back in the jungles of Asia. Everybody had a job to do and we were busy all the time just trying to make a safe place to live together. I remained leader for 30 years until my son was old enough to take over the job. All of the original 15 of us and all of the new children born lived in the secret oasis for the rest of our lives. We promised each other that we would never allow our children to be taken by the humans the way we were.\n\nI don't blame humans for keeping us in cages and trying to teach us to speak. Some of the other apes were mad at the humans and wanted to go out and hurt them. I had to work hard to keep everybody calm. The Chimp Haven was home now and I had to teach them how to be happy there. I was mad at the humans too but revenge is a slippery slope. If we went after the humans our new home would be ruined. The humans outnumber us and eventually they would win any fight. The scientist and college kids were doing what they believed was right. Sometimes humans can be so stupid. Humans are always so convinced that they are at the top of the food chain when it comes to brains but let's face it, apes are much smarter. They were actually pretty nice to us, or so they thought, but we are much happier here in the Ape Caves of Washington in our beautiful oasis all together. Every once in a while one of us will go out and let the humans think they saw Bigfoot just for fun."}
{"Under the Rug": "Two weeks passed and it happened again. Bill had been reading his book in his favorite chair when suddenly something started running underneath his carpeting again. The first time it happened bill was sitting in the exact same spot reading his favorite book. Bill actually thought maybe he was seeing things that first time but there is no question now, it was really a mystery. Bill thought to himself I don't ask very much for my life I like to read my books and I like it very, very quiet. Bill hadn't been this angry since those hideous children down the street thought they could ride their bicycles in front of his house at two o'clock on a Saturday afternoon. What were those hideous children thinking ruining a perfectly good Saturday with their loud laughing? Bill told those children off and they ran away into their homes exactly the way it should be on a sunny Saturday afternoon. Everyone knows the weekends are for quiet reading.\n\nBill didn't dare ask the neighbors if anything strange was happening in their houses. He suddenly realized that he didn't have a friend in the world. A few minutes later the strange creature ran again from one end of the living room to the other underneath the carpeting. Bill picked up a chair from the dining room set and started smashing it on top of whatever of the mystery creature could be. Unfortunately the creature didn't die it just ran back and forth across his living room. Just when he thought the day couldn't get any worse he could hear the laughing of children outside. It's bad enough the neighborhood children bug him all weekend long do they have to be up in the nighttime too. Where are their parents he thought. It looked like his favorite chair and his favorite book were going to have to wait. This mystery had to be solved.\n\nThe next morning Bill contacted the local exterminator and asked him to come and check out his house. The exterminator came and could not find any evidence of animals large enough to make that kind of dent in the carpeting. The exterminator did find some string and a hole in the back door and running all the way to the front doors. Neither of them could explain where it came from. The mystery continued. The exterminator went out the back door to check out the yard and asked Bill why he had so many balls in his backyard when he had no children. Bill said he collected the balls from the neighborhood lawns and anytime a ball landed in his yard he would not give it back to those horrible neighborhood children. He said that toys just get them all excited and make them want to make noise and he hated noise.\n\nSuddenly an idea came to the exterminator, he knew exactly what was going on in Bill's house. The exterminator told Bill maybe if you're a little nicer to the neighborhood children and you hand back all these balls your troubles will go away. Bill asked why and the exterminator said I'm not going to tell you but I guarantee you if you give back all the balls your troubles will be over.\n\nBill did listen to the exterminator and sent him on his way. A few weeks later the exact same thing happened again a wild animal ran back and forth across to this living room underneath the carpeting terrifying him. Bill thought I better listen to that exterminator and return all the balls to the neighborhood kids. He figured what can it hurt I mean this had to stop. One by one Bill returned every single ball in his backyard to the various neighborhood kids. He wasn't sure exactly where they went but he figured they'd get to the right place eventually. On the second to the last house he returned three balls and a Frisbee. The young man that lived in the house said OK Bill because you returned our balls I promise not to play with them in your house anymore. Bill asked what he was talking about. The little boy said Jamie from down the street and he decide to play a trick on Bill. They put a ball underneath the carpeting and with a string attached pull back and forth on either side of your house to teach you a lesson not to steal our toys. Bill laughed and promised never to do it again."}
{"Under the Rug": "Two weeks passed and it happened again. Bill had been reading his book in his favorite chair when suddenly something started running underneath his carpeting again. The first time it happened bill is sitting in the exact same spot reading his favorite book. Bill actually thought maybe he was seeing things that first time but there is no question now it was really a mystery. Bill thought to himself I don't ask very much for my life I like to read my books and I like it very very quiet. Bill hadn't been this angry since those hideous children down the street thought they could ride their bicycles in front of his house at two o'clock on a Saturday afternoon. What with his hideous children thinking ruining a perfectly good Saturday with their loud laughing? Bull told those children off and they ran away into their homes exactly the way it should be on a sunny Saturday afternoon. Everyone knows the weekends are for quiet reading. Bill didn't dare ask the neighbors if anything strange was happening in their houses. He suddenly realized that he didn't have a friend in the world. A few minutes later the strange creature ran again from one end of the living room to the other underneath the carpeting. Bill picked up a chair from the dining room set and started smashing it on top of whatever of the mystery creature could be. Unfortunately the creature didn't die it just Scampering back and forth across to his living room. As is it is day couldn't get any worse he could hear the laughing of children outside. It's bad enough the neighborhood children bug them all weekend long do they have to be up in the nighttime is well. Where their parents he thought. It looked like his favorite chair and his favorite book were going to have to wait. This mystery had to be solved. The next morning Bill contacted the local exterminator and asked him to come and check out his house. The exterminator came and could not find any evidence of animals large enough to make that kind of dent in the carpeting. The exterminator did find some string and a whole in the back door and running all the way to the front doors. Neither of them could explain where it came from. The mystery continued....\n\nExterminator went out the back door to check out the yard and asked Bill why he had so many balls in his backyard when he had no children. Bill said I collect the balls from the neighborhood lawns and any time a ball lands in my yard I don't give it back to those horrible neighborhood children. Balls just get them all excited and make them want to make noise I hate noise. Suddenly an idea came to the exterminator, he knew exactly what was going on in Bill's house. Exterminator told Bill maybe if you're a little nicer to the neighborhood children and you hand back all these balls your troubles will and. Bill asked why and that exterminator said I'm not to tell you that I guarantee you if you give back all the balls your troubles will be over. Bill did listen to the exterminator and sent him on his way. A few weeks later the exact same thing happened again a wild animal ran back and forth across to this living room underneath the carpeting terrifying him. Bill thought I'm but a listen to that exterminator and return all the balls to the neighborhood kids what can it hurt I mean this has to stop. One by one Bill returned every single ball in his backyard to the various neighborhood kids. He wasn't sure exactly where they went but he figured they'd get to the right place eventually. On the second last house he returned three balls and a frisbee and that young man that lived in the house said okay bill because he returned our balls I promise not to play with them in your house anymore. Bill asked what he was talking about. The little boy said Jamie from down the street and I decide to play a trick on you and put a ball underneath your carpeting and Emily Pollard back and forth with the string on either side of your house to teach you a lesson not to steal our toys. Bill asked and promised never to do it again."}{"Racial Tensions in To Kill a Mockingbird": "Some may wonder how equal rights evolved so quickly and in this 1960's Harper Lee novel we can see how. Readers are taken back in time to the 1930's, a much simpler time from what is told to us by Scout, a young girl and main character. She and her brother Jim are allowed to roam free to play in their small, southern town where it appears mostly whites live. Scout is eight and until a black man is accused of beating and raping a young white girl, she is not really aware of much crime, despite her father is a lawyer.\n\nWhen her father starts being harassed and riducled for defending a black man, Scout is confused. To her, she is unable to see why or how color makes a difference. To people. In an effort to find out, she continually asks her father about the trail and it is through his retelling we see how the trail goes, as well as the ultimate outcome.This was a great book that helped me see how racial inequalities and those who are different in some way, still exists today."}
{"Overview of  To Kill a Mockingbird": "Scout Finch lives with her brother Jem and widowed father, Atticus. They live in a town called Maycomb in Alabama, a town that has suffered throughout the great depression. They are however better off than most as Atticus is a successful lawyer, one summer Scout and Jem meet a boy named Dill. Their newly found friend quickly becomes obsessed with a place called the Radley house. The residence is owned by Mr. Nathan Radley, whose brother, Arthur (nicknamed Boo) has lived in for years yet rarely went outside. The next summer they run into a small incident with Boo and soon realize why people avoided him. School for Scout and Jem becomes dreadful, as their father agrees to defend a black man, Tom Robinson who was accused of the rape of a white girl. The reason they got so much hatred for this was that the county they lived in was mostly white racist folk, who now hated them.\n\nThe trial begins and soon Scout realizes the circumstances and what is going down, she realizes that no matter what she must have her father's back. You will have to read the book to find out what goes down in the end of this excellent novel. I would highly recommend this book, there are a myriad of reasons why. To begin with it has spot on pacing. It never felt dragging or like you were being bombarded with too much setting, plot, or characters. The word choice and the way it was communicated was top notch, there were countless words that I learned throughout the book. Finally, the story, the entire idea of this trial in this town with these people is a very interesting topic, and perfectly executed."}
{"Racism in To Kill a Mockingbird": "Here is a classic piece of work read by most teens in the US and a few other in the world Just to mention that the book has been translated into forty or more languages!Harper Lee has written only two books. The first one, To Kill a Mockingbird, is one of the most well known books in the world. It is considered as a masterpiece of American literature and it should be studied at schools. In the American South of the 1930s, Scout is growing up along with her father Atticus and brother Jem. She is a tomboy, playing around with her brother and a friend, wearing trousers, slugging out other schoolmates and rejecting anything girly. The town, Maycomb Alabama, is one of the classic southern towns. Racism thrives among the citizens, as black men are still considered to be beneath. Atticus is the appointed lower to defend Tom Robinson, a young black man, accused to have sexually assaulted a young white woman. The whole society is turned against him, without a doubt to the accused action, just because he is black.\n\nShoot all the blue jays you want, if you can hit em, but remember its a sin to kill a mockingbird\n\nTo Kill A Mockingbird takes readers to the roots of human behavior. It is a compassionate, deeply moving book. It demonstrates kindness and cruelty, love and hatred, innocence and experience, all this through the eyes of a nine-year-old girl. The father is teaching all the right values to his children, doing his best after his wife has passed away. Not an easy task with two rebellious children! Thank God for Cal who is handling all this mess very well! She is the mighty kind caring woman to solve all queries and set things up in the right order. She changes to adapt to each situation, for she wants whats best for the family.The children look up on their father, as he is a plain dealing man, defending right in every aspect and to the possible extend. He tries to teach his children respect and decency in a world that finds it difficult to apply those two values to all people. And as Miss Maudie also says, Atticus Finch is the same behind the doors of his home as he is on the public streets. This describes a man of integrity, someone you can count on and this is what the children do and learn. He, and so should they, does not put pressure on people to go out of their shot for nobodys sake. Especially people that have suffered from the local societys behavior. He, and so should they, does not rush to jump into conclusions. He, and so should they, always listens what one has to say. He, and so should they, always supports the right cause. He is a role model father, opposing drunkard and savage (single, widowers or not) fathers of the time. It is a book that makes us think and realize that not much have actually changes since the 1930s in many aspects. Racism still exists in many forms. Domestic violence still exists, even a bit more exaggerated nowadays People still stick their noses to other people business People still need to become humans"}
{"Atticus Finch is a Hero in To Kill a Mockingbird": "During my freshman year of high school, I read To Kill a Mockingbird as part of my language arts class. I enjoyed the novel immensely and was greatly intrigued when a new novel, Go Set a Watchman, was released in the summer of 2015, my senior year. I heard nothing but negative reviews about the new book, so I felt compelled to read the novel for myself and form my own opinion. The novels complexity fascinated me and made me look back at To Kill a Mockingbird just for comparison. My findings were interesting enough to me that I decided I wanted them to be the basis for an academic paper. Recently, in one of my final high school papers, I crafted an essay that examined in great detail how Atticus Finch in Go Set a Watchman--who is often criticized by reviewers and the general public for being so unlike the original Atticus in To Kill a Mockingbird--actually exhibits the same characteristics, especially those concerning racial equality, as the original Atticus Finch. Simply put: I examined the extent that Atticus Finch has been a racist from the very start--admittedly not a popular opinion. While I understand how reading the novels with this new mindset impacts the effect of the stories, I am in no way discouraging the reading (or rereading) of either novel. In fact, I personally found much enjoyment in reading both novels, not just To Kill a Mockingbird, and I believe many others will feel the same way.While I understand the hesitancy of some to read a novel whose moral compass has unsettling racist views, I do not believe this fact ruins either novel. In fact, I find Atticus Finch to still be a literary hero in both novels despite his racial beliefs. I believe important life lessons can still be learned from Atticus, despite his views on race.\n\nAtticus Finch is a hero in several regards. Hes a hero to his kids, hes a hero to the town of Maycomb, and hes a hero in the courtroom. Atticus is a hero to his kids simply because hes a just father who watches out for his children and, for the most part, teaches them the difference from right and wrong. In this regard, hes a good moral figure because he is a present and active father.Next, Atticus is a hero to the town of Maycomb as well. Even before the Tom Robinson trial, Atticus had been a respected and appreciated lawyer for Maycomb County, as well as well-liked by most, if not all, of the Maycombs residents. Despite his conservative views, he still stands up for courage and honesty. This is also seen in Go Set a Watchman, when Atticus agrees to defend Calpurnias grandson in a hit-and-run case. His bravery and devotion to his children and his hometown are certainly admirable traits for readers to notice.Lastly, Atticus is a hero in the courtroom. In my essay, one of my central discoveries is that Atticus has a deep devotion to the law and fair judicial proceedings, but not necessarily to African-Americans as a group. Atticus just happened to be defending an African-American man and his respect for his profession caused him to put aside any biases that he had. I believe that to be another admirable trait: the ability to put aside biases for your core beliefs and for justice.So while proving Atticus to be a racist in the novels To Kill a Mockingbird and Go Set a Watchman does cause a person to view the novels in a different light, I do believe that both novels are still worthy of being read for the plot each contains as well as the morals sprinkled through the pages.I find Atticus to be a literary hero in many senses, whether it be as a father, a citizen, or an attorney. I just dont view him as a hero in the regard that most do: as a civil rights activist."}
{"Rough Draft: Book Review To Kill a Mockingbird": "This review took a long time coming, mostly because I was having a hard time figuring out a concise way of fully expressing the intricacies weaved through the layers that are showcased in this story. And honestly, I still have no idea how I (or anyone for that matter) can do justice to reviewing this book without writing a complete thesis on it.\n\nBut dont worry, no thesis. I will restrain myself, and only give a short summary, and highlight the areas that really spoke to me. I am also going to include the one thing that irked me a little (it is relatively insignificant, considering the many wonderful things this book stands for), but I still want to mention it, because I dont want you to read the book with the same bias/preconceived notion that I had, which might negatively affect your reading experience (like it affected mine).\n\nThe Plot:\n\nThe book follows three years in the life of Scout Finch (narrator), her brother Jem, their father Atticus, in the fictional town of Maycomb, Alabama, during the Great Depression. I would say this novel can be viewed as two distinct parts, which are seamlessly woven together. The first half of the novel focuses mainly on Scout and Jem's childhood, their friend Dill, their fixation on their neighbor \"Boo\" Radley, and their experiences at school. The second part of the book is marked both by the ongoing trial of a black man accused of raping a white woman, whom Atticus has been called to defend, and the repercussions this trial has on the children's eventual coming of age. SO much to love!As many would agree, there is a lot to love - the characters, the evocative writing, and the childlike innocence spun through a novel of such weight and seriousness due to Lees choice of Scout as a narrator. But since I promised not to write a thesis, I will only highlight a few things -Discussion of Race Perceptions/Social Justice time. Despite the smooth and easily flowing narrative, this book is extremely powerful in its discussion of race, tolerance and human decency. This book shows us by example, what it means to have the courage to stand up in the face of injustice and say - Nope. Not today. Certainly not on my watch. That is a lesson that I think we can never be reminded of too often. When bad people do bad things to good people, the rest of us good people, need to stand up and be counted, regardless of how scary it might seem (be). And I know that this is easier said, than done, but at least that should be the standard towards which we strive. To me, Atticus Finch represents the epitome of that standard. And for that alone (but there is more), he has made it into the list of my favorite literary characters of all time."}
{"Timeless Story: To Kill a Mockingbird": "I read the book as an adolescent, as have countless young adults have. As a youth it had a profound effect upon me. The mid1960s was a time of racial unrest and a time of great violence. I felt as though I too lived in Maycomb with Scout, Jem, and Atticus. Now as I read the novel anew I was struck by what a masterpiece it is. I felt I could melt into the opening chapter. Her language was so smooth, so melodious, so southern! It was a pure delight throughout the book to spend time in the Deep South. Or was it? It was not a delight to read about Finchs landing, where she describes the men bringing the cotton to the river. Never in the book does she use the word slave.Her writing is beautiful and mellifluous. She draws you into the story until you feel the oppressive heat of the day and hear the sound of bare feet scratching on the sandy road past the Radleys spooky house. In addition to her lesson on racial justice, Lee also uses the book to share an opinion or two on the nature of education. She also most definitely describes whom she thinks are true Christians: Miss Maudie and Atticus chief among them.\n\nIve lived in a small town my family was the subject some townsfolks hate and derision. Like Scout, I could not understand how good Christians good be so blind and hateful. Reading of the missionary ladies in Atticus living room attending the Lords work while insulting their host was powerful and true. Lees choice to tell the tale through the eyes of a child was genius. It gave extra value and meaning to the childrens emotional reaction the trial results, and it made their questions sharper and more revealing. I recommend every adult reader take up this book and read it one more time."}
{"Recent Racial Tensions and the book To Kill a Mockingbird": "Lee's novel is set in 1935 during the Great Depression in a fictitious southern Alabama town, Maycomb, similar to the Alabama town of Monroeville in which Lee grew up. The book is narrated in the first person by \"Scout\" Finch a preadolescent tomboy. Scout's mother died when the girl was two. She lives with her older brother Jem, and her father, a middle-aged lawyer, Atticus Finch. The family has an African American maid, Calpurnia, who does much in helping to raise the two children.\n\nThe pacing and the storytelling of the book vary with the events recounted. Much of the book describes with obvious love the town of Maycomb and its environs and people. In these lengthy sections, which are valuable in themselves and for setting the stage, the book moves as sleepily as a hot summer day.The storytelling is much quicker and more dramatic when Atticus Finch is called upon to defend Tom Robinson, an African American man accused of raping a 19-year old woman who lives with her poor rural family. The trial, its build-up, and its aftermath are recounted sharply and with suspense. With the end of the trial and the unfortunate following event, the book becomes a mix of the descriptive style of place and Southern Gothic as Scout and Jem have a harrowing adventure the night of Halloween involving a large local home and one of its inhabitants whom they have never seen.When I first read the book in high school during the civil rights era, it was viewed as a novel of race relations. Reading the book when I am much older and in a different time from the 1960s, I had a broader impression. Racial discrimination in the South is certainly at the heart of the story. But I found the story of growing up, the characterization of many people in the town from all walks of life, the writing style, and the author's attitude towards place and character were as important to her novel as the theme of racial prejudice. After a long career as a lawyer, I also was taken again with Atticus Finch and his devotion to the law, to acting justly, and to his family.\n\nI couldn't help thinking about this book in light of the polarization over many issues which now plagues our country. Some people read \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" as raising themes such as gender, caste, economic status in addition to race; and perhaps it does so. The tone of the book, however, seems to me far from the tone of the discussion in much of contemporary America from all sides. The book is sober, restrained and non-judgmental. The critique that it offers of racial prejudice, and perhaps of other issues as well, is offered in a quiet voice with respect for everyone, including the perpetuators of the discrimination. Atticus Finch famously advises his children not to criticize others until one has walked in their shoes and Lee follows her character's advice in the course of the novel. Issues which could and did become sharp and polarizing were treated softly with a sense of respect. As I reread the book, I thought of how much of our discourse has sharpened with so many people thinking they are right and that people who think differently are wrong. This would be so for those who strongly share some of the concerns that they find addressed in \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" and for those who, perhaps, think differently about some of them. Lee's novel shows a love for its particular place in southern Alabama and for its particularly described people even when it is critical of their behavior. And so, I took from the book, many years after my first reading, the message of love of place, of the United States, and its people. We can love others even when we disagree without the sense of absolutism or self-righteousness. I was grateful for the opportunity accorded by the book group to think again about Harper Lee and her novel."}
{"I Hate  Holden Caulfield": "I dont like Holden Caulfield. In fact, I cant stand him. Hes everything he despises in other people: phony, a compulsive liar, hypocritical, selfish and self-centered. Hes also pessimistic, cynical, very judgmental, critical, and hopelessly depressing. Is it any wonder why he is always so depressed? He cannot stand his own company. But there are moments I felt some kind of compassion for him. Or is it just pity? Its pity. Like when we learn that his younger brother Allie died from leukemia. Or the suicide of a boy he knew in school. His brothers death, more than anything, is what may have propelled him to self-destruction. Being so young (a teenager), it is understandable that he has not learned to cope with his brothers death. Hes also a self-proclaimed atheist and comes from a family that are atheists or at least agnostic. They really do not believe in anything. This, coupled with the tragic loss of his brother has left him unable to deal with loss. There is nothing for him to grasp onto. He is empty inside, and that emptiness is filled with cynicism that borders on despair. Its no wonder he has flunked out of so many schools. Whats the point of living? Thats what he is probably thinking. Kids his age are phony. Adults are phony. Life is phony.\n\nThis colors his outlook, or rather, drains all color from life itself. He is shuffled around from one school to another, one day to another, one moment to another. The only thing that brings him any joy is his sister Phoebe, just as Allie once did. He obviously loves her. He is capable of some degree of love, but so torn up inside that he cannot deal with anything. Then there is his curiosity about the ducks at the lagoon in Central Park. Where do they go in the winter when the water freezes? He is like those ducks, and his is stuck in a long winter that might have begun with this brothers death. There is no place for him to go. Though I suspect he was already a cynical person before Allies death. Sarcastic at least. The death just made him more so. It would be interesting to see Holden 10 years later. Or 20 even. Would he have changed at all? I doubt it. People dont usually change. If they have a streak of sarcasm, it often only becomes more pronounced with age. I can imagine Holden as a grumpy old man. If he made it that far. I dont know. He seemed bent on self-destruction. He might have died in his 20s or 30s. Maybe even have taken his own life. But despite all his cynicism, he seems to also have a survivors streak. Maybe he would have eventually emerged from this pit of darkness. Maybe. I certainly hope so. For his sake.So why do I still love this book? J.D. Salinger did a remarkable job of creating him. The fact that people react strongly to this character speaks of the authors skill in creating him. Holdens cynical attitude, his foul language, his shifty distrusting eyes, his body language. Its all very real and thoroughly depicted. And this resonates with the reader. It definitely leaves an impression. Even if some people like me dont like Holden, Salinger pulled it off."}
{"JD Salinger creates all angst in teens into one character": "Holden Caulfield has a problem, and its a big one, you see, the kid, as young as he is, barely 17, has already had a nervous breakdown, and truth be told he hasn't recovered from it. But he has a good reason behind it, his kid Brother, a very likable and sweet child, a kid who wrote poetry on his baseball glove so he had something to read while standing out in the outfield waiting for something to happen, this kid, this sweet kid got sick and died, and Holden hasn't gotten over the idea. The idea that he lives in a world that is governed by rules that lets kids like that get sick and die, and all the bad people get along fine, the bad people don't even catch a cold.The realization of the inevitability of death hits different people in different ways, for Holden, he basically fell to pieces. the death of his kid brother changed Holden, and he just can't see the point of following the prescribed course of all his friends and peers, scramble to get good grades in school, so you can go to a good college, and then get a good job and make lots of money, what's the point, you just might get sick and die along the way, and even if you don't, death will catch up with you anyway.\n\nEveryone is tired of Holden being upset and being difficult, everyone else just wants to get along and nobody really cares if his kid Brother died, or if Holden is upset, nobody cares about anybody but themselves. Holden is rebelling in his own way, but how can you rebel against the laws of the universe. Holden feels very wised up, he see's life for the futile game that it is. Holden also has an obsession with protecting children from bad things, especially death. in many ways Holden is a boy who doesn't want to grow up, because even though death can take a little boy, it usually waits till later, after a fellow has lived a bit, and Holden knows that the farther he gets away from childhood the closer he gets to death.While all of this is going on in the background of Holdens life, he is still a teenager, trying to wrestle with the problems that all teenagers wrestle with, problems that to a teenage mind loom larger than life and seem very dramatic, Holden has more problems than most, in fact he feels like one big problem compressed into human form and it's no coincidence that all these problems come to a head at one time and Holden cracks up again.The story is a favorite among Teenagers, Holden is alone against all the troubles of the World, and most sensitive teens feel much the same. For the most part most teenagers are scared and confused, the sweet childhood years are gone, and will never come back, the life that replaces is completely different from childhood, the real world with all it's pressures arrives all at once, including the need to find a girlfriend or a partner that truly loves you, because if you don't you will be left all alone, but the same forces that design that young boy should die are also in charge of love and future fortune.No wonder Holden is so scared."}
{"1950's Teens Reflected in Catcher in the Rye": "The Catcher in the Rye is simultaneously a book totally foreign to the culture and time in which it was released, and yet also a perfect reflection of the values and experiences of that time. Released in 1951, the novel focuses on the adventures (although it is a bit generous to label them as such), of Holden Caulfield, a seventeen year old who, in the beginning of the novel, we learn has recent been expelled for a fourth consecutive time from a prep school in upper New York. The book follows Holden over a period of only several days, as he leaves his campus, travels to the city, and hangs around for a short time.\n\nOne of the things that makes Catcher in the Rye unique is its spin on the traditional pacing and conflict of a novel. The novel opens not by jumping into the action, but by use of a framing story. We learn that Holden is narrating from a mental facility, and that the events of the book actually take place several months in the past. Thus, the reader learns, from the start, that the story will be on be one that ultimately results in Holdens nervous breakdown which causes him to enter the facility. This certainly ends up being the case, as over the course of the story, the author, J.D. Salinger, forgoes a more standard extrinsic conflict, and instead shifts the main problems Holden faces to be psychological, rooted deep in his psyche, and in his deep dissatisfaction with the world as he sees it.The roughly one hundred fifty page novel spans only several days, meaning that readers experience all of what Holden does in rather extreme depth. This leads to one of the most convincing and credible characters in all of literature. This accomplishment shines doubly bright when considering that Holden, a teenager, was written by Salinger, a fully grown adult. The novel does an incredible job capturing the feelings of teenage angst and societal dissatisfaction which remains prevalent even today. Overall I found the novel to be an excellent read, and would highly recommend it to adult readers, as well as teens."}
{"Catcher in the Rye and Growing Up Disillusioned": "The Catcher in the Rye tells the story of Holden Caulfield as he travels in New York City after he flunked out of his private school. He didnt fail because he was dumb, he just cant stand to be around phonies. This theme of the validity of people carries through J.D. Salingers timeless novel. The book focuses on a 16-year old boy desires to find a meaning for his life and for something that makes him happy. Holden is very critical of his society with his cynical personality. He finds many people to show off what they have without having any true substance to their personality. He doesnt feel like he fits in and is trying to figure himself out while everyone else around him already has a plan. Due to this, Salinger makes it extremely easy to relate to this book. At some point in time, everyone has felt lost in their life, unaware of what the next move they should make. Since Holden is trying to figure out what he should do, it makes it very easy for the reader to slip into Holden and make him part of their own personality. It forces the reader to consider what consequences, either good or bad, their choices have.\n\nI would recommend this story to anybody, especially to older children. It is a good book to read because Salinger is able to capture what a teenager really feels and thinks about life. He also is able to pull on emotion. The novel makes the reader reflect on the life they are living and truly question what makes them happy. I personally enjoyed this book so much because of how blunt and straight to the point is is. It does not waste time in trying to go around sensitive subjects. It's ironic how the story features such mature themes but is able to pull them off with childhood innocence. It is done in a tasteful way that shows class and maturity. The Catcher in the Rye is known for its controversy but in today's day and age, it isn't that shocking anymore. This is a book everyone should read, regardless of age. Even if someone isn't contemplating their life choices, it is simply a good story. The story flows very smoothly and is an easy read. Students especially should read this book as it gives an accurate summary of growing up and its struggles while having enough humor and wit to make growing up seem plausible."}
{"Overview of Catcher in the Rye": "J.D. Salingers novel Catcher in the Rye, follows Holden Caulfields journey from an expelled prep school student to mental patient. Throughout the story Holden battles with himself and the world to protect the innocent. His dream is to become a catcher in the rye, watching over kids playing on cliff and sweeping them away from the edge whenever they get too close, to keep them from reaching adulthood.The effectiveness of the book comes from Salingers strong character development, Holdens experiences in New York and all the people he meets create a clearer image in the readers mind of his mental state and how each person impacts it. The beginning of the story is quite confusing starting at the end of his mental breakdown with the rest of the story as a flashback. Holden faces his biggest fear after being expelled from Pencey Prep: growing up. While he does smoke and drink throughout the book, more adult adventures, he cant help but notice that the world is full of fake people, phonies. Along with strong character development themes are also very effective in achieving the books purpose.\n\nThe ineffectiveness of the book revolves around its unnecessary scenes that are completely irrelevant to the main storyline. For example, while in New York Holden visits a bar to listen to a famous pianist and runs into his older brothers ex-girlfriend. This scene has no impact on the book as a whole compared to Holdens experience at the school with the profanity written on the walls. Other than this scene the others help chronicle Holdens mental deterioration and inability to cope with growing up.Salingers use of strong characters and themes helps reinforce the effectiveness of achieving the books purpose. Though some of the most impactful characters only live in Holdens memory such as Jane and Allie, they add to his need to protect innocence. Holden wasnt able to save his brother and he remembers Jane as the girl he played checkers. He does reach an epiphany by the end of the novel as his sister Phoebe rides the carousel, all Holden wants to do is sweep her off the ride as it begins to rain but he sees her reaching for the gold ring without fear. Holden realizes that he must let go of the past because growing up is inevitable."}
{"Catcher in the Rye You Must Grow Even if You Dont Grow Up": "The Catcher in the Rye is the story of Holden Caulifield s expulsion from Pensy Prep and his journey back home to N.Y.C, where he bums around for a few days, trying to get somebody to listen to him, and meaningfully respond to his fears about becoming an adult. Holden by the way has grown six inches in the last year and half of his head is covered in grey hairs  both impending signs of adulthood.In this novel he is so obsessed with, and protective of innocence that he cant even throw a snowball at a car, because it looked so nice and white. He tries and asks many people in the city about his problems during the novel, and nothing else much happens. No heavy action scenes, no real voilene and no sex scenes - as Holden is probably the first person in the world to pay a prostitute not to have sex with him.What Holden really wants is not money or sex or anything, he wants to stop time. As he says when thinking about the natural history museum, The best thing though, about that museum, is that everything always stayed right where it was. Holden wants to be a protector of innocence, a catcher in the rye, but he also wants to stay innocent himself.This is innocence is explained through sex  a possible sexual advance from an adult at the end of the novel Holden says This sort of thing has happened about twenty times since I was a kid. From that alone we see why the adult world seems so phoney to Holden, as the only adult who pays attention to him in the entire novel is one with alternate motives.So he just wants to stop time to keep himself and the people he cares about away from that phoney world. Holden time back, if you will.\n\nAt the end of the novel, Holden says to Phoebe Listen, do you wanna go for a walk? Holden finally gets listened to. Well they start off walking on opposite sides of the street, but he does get listened to. Holden watches as his little sister goes round and around on the merry-go-round.And moments later we feel something welling up inside of us as Holden writes I felt so damn happy. The way old Phoebe kept going around and around. I was damn near bawling I was so damn happy, if you want to know the truth. I dont know why, its just she kept going around and around in her blue coat and all. God I wish you couldve been there.Some say that Holden never changes throughout the novel, but he does right at the end. The boy who wants nothing to change becomes so damn happy when he sees his little sister go around and around.When Holden stops thinking of time as a line to corrupt adulthood but instead imagines it as a circle where one goes around and around in a journey to and from innocence that lasts throughout life, he can finally be so damn happy.Yes, Holden never really gets anywhere, and nothing much happens, it just keeps going around and around. But that doesnt mean nothing ever changes."}
{"Unique J.D. Salinger and The Catcher in the Rye": "Catcher in the Rye is a book in first person being narrated by a protagonist named Holden Caulfield who views the world around him in a limited way. The setting is only taken place throughout a 3 day time period in New York City with the author, J.D. Salinger capturing the mind of a troubled teenager dealing with the adult world of losing innocence and sexuality. J.D. Salinger uses very provocative language to express Holdens thinking although when the reader first looks at it may take it offensive but if they think twice about it, they can see the connection and the message he is trying to deliver. Throughout the book, Holden shares many thoughts and perspectives about his surroundings which creates distraught and resentful atmosphere. Words are often repeated and emphasized which gives clues about what the author really wants the reader to understand.\n\nCatcher in the Rye can either be greatly fond of, or be bashed down by readers who dislike the style that J.D. Salinger uses to describe Holdens world. Of course, there are readers that are in between, like me. The book uses very colloquial language which at first may seem like an easy book but it takes a lot of interpretation to fully receive the understanding J.D. Salinger is depicting in the scenes that Holden experiences. Personally, Im not that good at making connections by thinking deeply about a scene so it can be frustrating for me at times to get why that scene is even mentioned. Despite of this, I do, surprisingly appreciate the different style of writing that the author uses (we all know why its famous). Salinger, although controversial, he uses cursing only on things that he really wants the reader to focus on and draw attention too. By spotting out them, the reader can perceive what mood Holden is currently in."}
{"Moody Teenagers and The Catcher in the Rye": "In The Catcher in the Rye, JD Salinger writes through the eyes of a judgmental 16-year-old boy, Holden Caulfield, who has been expelled from yet another prep school, Percy Prep. It walks us through his twisted view on the world during the days he spends in New York in procrastination of facing his parents. In his dialogue with a psychoanalysis, which is the narration of the book, Holden reveals his ingrained distrust and unique point of view of the people in society.The importance and success of this novel comes from the critiques of society within the book that no one in the time of its release was pointing out. Holden comments on the common-placeness of rape, prostitution, and most focused on lack of care of corruption of innocents. Bringing these topics on the table went against the common ideas of the perfect family in a perfect clean-cut society of American in the 1940-1950s.\n\nTowards the end, it clearly shows how Holden isnt the only one not ignoring the problems in society and through help from and old similar teacher and Holdens little sister, he accepts the issues in society. After the book, it is unclear if he will take action and apply himself and his point of view but in the real world at least, Holdens story brought focus to the issues in society most chose to ignore.Personally, I have respect for the novel but The Catcher in the Rye was my favorite book. Holdens hypocrisy and pessimistic, depressing point of view constantly left me upset and infuriated. However, as has been pointed out to me several times, my negative opinion is could simply be because I see a little bit of Holden and his judgmental perspective in myself. The points he makes hit too close to home. Whether I believe this is true or not I wouldnt hesitate to recommend this book to everyone I can. It is the formation of new opinions on the topics presented by JD Salinger that creates the deep connection we all have to The Catcher in the Rye."}
{"The Catcher in the Rye by J. D. Salinger": "The Catcher in the Rye by J. D. Salinger is a classic book about a boy in high school, Holden Caulfield, who is trying to discover who he is. This book was very relatable to me, because it wasnt written with huge words that are hard to understand. It is written the way a teenager would talk around their friends, or the words that would pop up in their heads.The book started slower than most books that I read and has less action than most books. It is almost like a memoir of a day in someones life except for that it spans longer than a day. One thing that Holden kept mentioning was his brother as well as his sister, Phoebe. I have a really strong bond with my sister, so this is one way that I feel makes me really connect with the book. The other major element that makes me really connect with the book is the moment that the title is mentioned. For me, this makes the book come full circle and always makes me feel a certain way that is indescribable.\n\nThe moment of realizing the importance of the title connects the whole novel. It leads in with Holden sneaking into his home to see his sister, Phoebe. This shows how much he loves and cares for his siblings as well as the compassion that he has. This one section tells everything about Holden  If theyre [little kids] running and they dont look where theyre going I have to come out from somewhere and catch them. Thats all Id do all day. Id just be the catcher in the rye and all. Through this, the reader discovers who Holden really is, and this is what he has been trying to find throughout the whole novel, and is still looking for at the end.I would recommend this book to everyone. I feel that it has very important messages in finding yourself. Even if someone might not like it, they will still get something out of it. I understand how people may not like the fact that it curses quite frequently, but that makes it so much more real. Another problem seen is that the main character smokes and makes fun of people. Reading it doesnt make it ok to do these things, but most people realize that. Also, this is how real life is in most circumstances and reading about it will make you ready for it when the time comes.One of the reviews mentions that many people relate to Holden Caulfield even though he is a pathetic character. I can agree with this to an extent, but what makes this book so amazing is the fact that you can relate to it and use it to help guide you through certain moments in your life."}
{"Mental Illness in The Catcher in the Rye by J. D. Salinger": "\"The Catcher In The Rye\" is written as a repetitive, purely adolescent, rambling stream of consciousness, paying homage to mental illness. The book's infamous controversial past belongs solely in the past, and should not continue to stir criticism over its profanity or questions of sexuality. The homosexual nuances (homosexuality was classified as mental illness during Holden's adolescence) only adds to the the narrator's confusion and enriches the depths of his isolation, while the profanity seeks to emphasize Holden's anger at the world.The troubled, emotionally damaged protagonist being a privileged child of a relatively wealthy New York City family nullifies most empathy the book is intended to conjure. In the shortest possibly summary of \"The Catcher in The Rye\", Holden Caufield complains about everything possible, within the span of 214 pages of pure, attention-seeking and disillusioned depression.\n\nJ.D. Salinger's pursuits to convey a sense of apathetic innocence and universal identification felt off-putting at times. However, despite the narrator's dislikable perspective, his plea to humanity is worth the read. J.D. Salinger didn't write \"The Catcher In The Rye\" for its readers to fall in love with a beautiful plot line or tear-worthy character development, but rather to read it in a more introspective way to reflect on one's self and society as a whole."}
{"Catcher in the Rye 1st person Narrative": "What a very different (though enormously enjoyable) experience it has been, leading me to reflect much more on the writing than I ever did. When I read it, it was long before it was deemed necessary to get teens into reading by 'books aimed at teenagers' We were reading classics in school, dealing with adult themes, and expected to read them in an adult and sophisticated way (admittedly, my education was geared towards pushing us all into academia, so we were expected to pull ourselves upwards from an initial place of interest and enthusiasm)Now, I gather that because this is about a teenager, written first person, it is deemed to be fit to 'encourage' reluctant readers - I think it's absolutely the wrong book to be forced to approach in a lit-crit way, at the time when your relationship with it might be purely emotional identification - or, it might be too uncomfortable to observe, up close and personal your own psychology when in the middle of it. Not to mention the fact that some of the language will feel very dated - I wonder how books written by adults with a teen narrator will fare in 50 odd years' time (Catcher was published originally in 1945. And, no, that's not when I first read it!) I suspect the endless like, like, whatever dialogue - if the author really attempts to pin down current youth buzz-speak, will make for throw-the-book-against-the-wall annoyance. Salinger is pretty sparing of his I assume 1945 young-slang but I suspect it might distance a teen reader, as it will make it feel dated.\n\nI think in many ways it is an 'emotion recollected in tranquillity' read, and far more interesting for an (ahem) mature reader. I really appreciated this time round, Salinger's skill. Firstly, that first-person narrative. Perhaps of late this has been overdone. I know a lot of readers dislike it intensely and find it false. When appropriate (like any stylistic choice) it works brilliantly. And this is, for sure, appropriate. Had Salinger decided on the narrator as third person god approach, the wonderful mismatch between the dismissive 'whatever' thoughts of Holden Caulfield and his tenderness, how much vulnerability of any kind 'kills' him, be it impoverished nuns with straw baskets or what happens to the ducks in Central Park in the winter. The swiftness of his movement from prickliness to vulnerability and compassion and back again is beautifully done, and very truthful.In many ways, for those unfamiliar with the book, not a lot (externally) happens. Intelligent, sensitive, prickly-as-a-succulent-cactus Holden Caulfield, second son of an eccentric, gifted, clearly damaged, family. The third child died young, of leukaemia, before the start of the novel, and the shock-waves have hit everyone hard. Holden himself is at that stage where he is most unforgiving of everyone around him BECAUSE he is so vulnerable to their vulnerabilities - prickle is a defence against pain. He has just been expelled from his latest expensive school. He is a youngster with an attitude, self-destructive, wasting of his talents without being able to see quite why that might matter. The 'story' of the book is the three or four days between the expulsion and when his family would expect him home for the normal term end. Holden is looking back at that period, from a time some months in the near future, and he is telling his story possibly to us, but maybe to someone else - who that might be is suggested, quite early on. He does his best to put his listener or his reader off wanting to know more, but, as he is both wittingly and unwittingly quirky and amusing, no doubt the reader, or the listener, will stay involved for the ride"}
{"Hamlet's Soliloquy and The Catcher in the Rye": "Choose one to four lines from the \"To Be or Not to Be\" soliloquy from Hamlet. Interpret Hamlet's line, and then apply it in an interesting way to Holden and his journey over the course of the novel. Apply it to the novel as whole. Besure to develop your idea and derive wisdom in the conclusion. Open book; quote both the play and the novel.\n\nIn William Shakespeare's Hamlet the  to be or not to be speech is all about Hamlet dealing with his problems. Hamlet is thinking about the meaning of life and death and what it means to really live in the world that is before him, or to pretend to live in another world in his dreams. When he considers living in the real world he wants to take arms against a sea of troubles and deal with his problems head on. When Hamlet is considering his own death and suicide he says to die; to sleep; no more; and by a sleep to say we end in this passage he has decided it s easier to just die. Holden Caulfield is dealing with his own mortality and decisions including whether or not grow up and deal with or to hide away in his fantasies. You can feel Holden's manic frenzy to connect with someone, even if he has to connect with somebody who has died, like his brother Allie. In the quote boy, I felt miserable. I felt so depressed, you can't even imagine. What I did, I started talking, sort of out loud, to Allie (98). Holden and Hamlet are both grieving loved ones that have been lost. Neither character wants to deal with their depression. Holden deals with his depression by surrounding himself with people and talking to his deceased brother. Hamlet also speaks to the dead in the form of ghosts.\n\nIn Hamlet's famous speech he believes that are giving up some of your power when you are at the mercy of outrageous fortunes. That is the power you give up to other people. You have to give up your power to others because it is really the way you can truly live your life. Hamlet believes that death is empowering and killing yourself is a way to take action by defeating the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. Holden Caulfield feels powerless in his life. He believes everything is other people's fault because he is so immature and cannot take ownership of his own deeds. Everything is depressing and he is in a spiral of sadness. After making a date with Sally he started obsessing about money saying it always ends up making you blue as hell. Of course Holden says this about many things, including crossing the street, going to different schools, having a roommate and so on.\n\nHolden Caulfield even mentions Hamlet. He enjoyed the smallest part of the play were Ophelia was horsening around with her brother and teasing him but the larger meaning of the play was lost to him because he kept worrying about whether he's going to do something phony every minute. Holden Caulfield cant enjoy any part of his life because his depression and anxiety dont allow him to see the bigger picture. Hamlet is in a similar situation he is slowly losing his mind and talking to ghosts when he should be dealing with problems right in front of him. Holden and Hamlet share this depression and sadness that will lead to their downfall."}
{"Catcher in the Rye": "1) Title. Working or Alternative Titles Catcher in the Rye\n\n2) Author JD Salinger\n\n3) Date of Publication 1951\n\n4) Genre Coming of age story, literary realism\n\n5) Writing Techniques First person narration\n\n6) The Setting and How It Contributes to the Drama or Atmosphere The setting is a boys prep school in Pennsylvania called Pencey Prep and later New York City. The boys prep school is filled with homosexual overtones and phonies. New York City although it is filled with people holding cannot manage to find anyone to spend time with.\n\n7) Central Conflict and How It Develops and Resolves. What is the climax? Related Minor Conflicts the major conflict in the story is Holden Caulfield being kicked out of school and slowly having a nervous breakdown. It develops with Holden leaving school and making a series of bad decisions over a long weekend. It is resolved when Holden is institutionalized.\n\n8) Major Characters major characters are Holden Caulfield, Ackley, Stradlater, Phoebe\n\n9) Minor Characters Jane Gallagher, Sally Hayes, Mr Spencer, Carl Luce\n\n10) Themes : Themes include a coming-of-age story and the fake reality adults live in compared to the reality that children live in.\n\n11) Symbols and Motifs symbols include the red hunting hat, the carousel in the park, the museum that Holden visits as a child then again as a young adult, the ducks in the pond and the fish in Central Park.\n\n12) Plot Overview, Chronologically, Including the Setting and Movement from Place to Place (Be Brief! Three to five sentences!) Holden Caulfield is at a prep school and has been kicked out, he leaves school and decides to live alone in New York City for a few days until he is forced to face his parents. He is very lonely and manic and searches for someone to hang out with and talk to so he stays up and doesn't sleep for days on end and has a series of interactions with people and eventually meets up with his sister who convinces him not to run away and at the end of the book he is hospitalized because of his nervous breakdown.\n\n13) What is Most Stunning about this Book is amazing that no adults in this book attempt to help Holden or even realize that he is on a manic psycho trip waiting for his nervous breakdown to take him over and even though he gives lots of notice and red flags that he is in trouble they continue to shuffle him around from place to place and school to school without actually helping him.\n\n14) A Quote of Less than Ten Words to Memorize this is my people shooting hat page 22\n\n1) Title. Working or Alternative Titles Pride and Prejudice\n\n2) Author Jane Austen\n\n3) Date of Publication 1796\n\n4) Genre comedy\n\n5) Writing Techniques Jane Austin uses satire and comedy to write about very serious matters. Elizabeth Bennett uses cutting words to portray how unhappy she is and is very prejudice against wealthy people.\n\n6) The Setting and How It Contributes to the Drama or Atmosphere the book is all about the setting. The poor country family is actually very middle-class because they have servants as well but they consider themselves poor because they don't live in a gigantic mansion like Darcy or Lady Katherine and they feel very poor in comparison.\n\n7) Central Conflict and How It Develops and Resolves. What is the climax? Related Minor Conflicts\n\nThe central conflict in the book is the five daughters need to marry because they will lose their house if they do not settle well with husbands because they had only girls nobody stands to inherit the house when the father dies. The climax of the book is when Darcy asks Elizabeth to marry him. Minor conflicts include Bingley and Jane trying to get together and Lidia marrying Wickham\n\n8) Major Characters Elizabeth Bennett, Fitzwilliam Darcy, Jane Bennett, Charles Bingley, Mr. and Mrs. Bennett\n\n9) Minor Characters Lydia Bennet, Mr. Collins, Lady Catherine DeBourgh, Wickham\n\n10) Themes Jane Austen writes about the class differences in England and the unfairness of it all.\n\n11) Symbols and Motifs the upper class being rude and the lower class being hard-working and not being able to get ahead is an ongoing motif.\n\n12) Plot Overview, Chronologically, Including the Setting and Movement from Place to Place (Be Brief! Three to five sentences!) The story begins in Hertfordshire the town Elizabeth is from where a family with five girls lives when a wealthy man who rents the house next-door two of the five girls marry the wealthy man and his friend and one daughter marries a Playboy a soldier and nearly brings disgrace to the family but it all ends happy. Elizabeth moves to Derbyshire to live with her husband Darcy.\n\n13) What is Most Stunning about this Book is most stunning in this book that there are still women in foreign countries that are second-class citizens or maybe even third class after the donkeys. It is amazing after so many years that women still struggle to own property in their own right without needing a man.\n\n14) A Quote of Less than Ten Words to Memorize From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will never see you again if you do not marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again if you do.\" (97)"}
{"Catcher in the Rye": "1) Title. Working or Alternative Titles Catcher in the Rye\n\n2) Author JD Salinger\n\n3) Date of Publication 1951\n\n4) Genre Coming of age story, literary realism\n\n5) Writing Techniques First person narration\n\n6) The Setting and How It Contributes to the Drama or Atmosphere The setting is a boys prep school in Pennsylvania called Pencey Prep and later New York City. The boys prep school is filled with homosexual overtones and phonies. New York City although it is filled with people holding cannot manage to find anyone to spend time with.\n\n7) Central Conflict and How It Develops and Resolves. What is the climax? Related Minor Conflicts the major conflict in the story is Holden Caulfield being kicked out of school and slowly having a nervous breakdown. It develops with Holden leaving school and making a series of bad decisions over a long weekend. It is resolved when Holden is institutionalized.\n\n8) Major Characters major characters are Holden Caulfield, Ackley, Stradlater, Phoebe\n\n9) Minor Characters Jane Gallagher, Sally Hayes, Mr Spencer, Carl Luce\n\n10) Themes : Themes include a coming-of-age story and the fake reality adults live in compared to the reality that children live in.\n\n11) Symbols and Motifs symbols include the red hunting hat, the carousel in the park, the museum that Holden visits as a child then again as a young adult, the ducks in the pond and the fish in Central Park.\n\n12) Plot Overview, Chronologically, Including the Setting and Movement from Place to Place (Be Brief! Three to five sentences!) Holden Caulfield is at a prep school and has been kicked out, he leaves school and decides to live alone in New York City for a few days until he is forced to face his parents. He is very lonely and manic and searches for someone to hang out with and talk to so he stays up and doesn't sleep for days on end and has a series of interactions with people and eventually meets up with his sister who convinces him not to run away and at the end of the book he is hospitalized because of his nervous breakdown.\n\n13) What is Most Stunning about this Book is amazing that no adults in this book attempt to help Holden or even realize that he is on a manic psycho trip waiting for his nervous breakdown to take him over and even though he gives lots of notice and red flags that he is in trouble they continue to shuffle him around from place to place and school to school without actually helping him.\n\n14) A Quote of Less than Ten Words to Memorize this is my people shooting hat page 22\n\n1) Title. Working or Alternative Titles Pride and Prejudice\n\n2) Author Jane Austen\n\n3) Date of Publication 1796\n\n4) Genre comedy\n\n5) Writing Techniques Jane Austin uses satire and comedy to write about very serious matters. Elizabeth Bennett uses cutting words to portray how unhappy she is and is very prejudice against wealthy people.\n\n6) The Setting and How It Contributes to the Drama or Atmosphere the book is all about the setting. The poor country family is actually very middle-class because they have servants as well but they consider themselves poor because they don't live in a gigantic mansion like Darcy or Lady Katherine and they feel very poor in comparison.\n\n7) Central Conflict and How It Develops and Resolves. What is the climax? Related Minor Conflicts\n\nThe central conflict in the book is the five daughters need to marry because they will lose their house if they do not settle well with husbands because they had only girls nobody stands to inherit the house when the father dies. The climax of the book is when Darcy asks Elizabeth to marry him. Minor conflicts include Bingley and Jane trying to get together and Lidia marrying Wickham\n\n8) Major Characters Elizabeth Bennett, Fitzwilliam Darcy, Jane Bennett, Charles Bingley, Mr. and Mrs. Bennett\n\n9) Minor Characters Lydia Bennet, Mr. Collins, Lady Catherine DeBourgh, Wickham\n\n10) Themes Jane Austen writes about the class differences in England and the unfairness of it all.\n\n11) Symbols and Motifs the upper class being rude and the lower class being hard-working and not being able to get ahead is an ongoing motif.\n\n12) Plot Overview, Chronologically, Including the Setting and Movement from Place to Place (Be Brief! Three to five sentences!) The story begins in Hertfordshire the town Elizabeth is from where a family with five girls lives when a wealthy man who rents the house next-door two of the five girls marry the wealthy man and his friend and one daughter marries a Playboy a soldier and nearly brings disgrace to the family but it all ends happy. Elizabeth moves to Derbyshire to live with her husband Darcy.\n\n13) What is Most Stunning about this Book is most stunning in this book that there are still women in foreign countries that are second-class citizens or maybe even third class after the donkeys. It is amazing after so many years that women still struggle to own property in their own right without needing a man.\n\n14) A Quote of Less than Ten Words to Memorize From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will never see you again if you do not marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again if you do.\" (97)"}
{"Catcher in the Rye": "1) Title. Working or Alternative Titles Catcher in the Rye\n\n2) Author JD Salinger\n\n3) Date of Publication 1951\n\n4) Genre gritty realistic first-person narration\n\n5) Writing Techniques First person narration\n\n6) The Setting and How It Contributes to the Drama or Atmosphere Pencey Prep and later New York City. The prep school is filled with people although Holden does not seem to have a single friend among them and the atmosphere seems stifling and overwhelming. New York City contributes to the drama has no one seems to care about one lost 17-year-old child.\n\n7) Central Conflict and How It Develops and Resolves. What is the climax? Related Minor Conflicts Holden and his impending nervous breakdown is the central conflict of the story. It develops very quickly over a three-day period before Christmas after he is tossed out of the third or fourth prep school. The climax of the story is when Holden realizes he is having a nervous breakdown again when he asks the girl after the play to run away with him. There are many minor conflicts most of which are in hold its head when he remembers small things like the docs and obsesses over them.\n\n8) Major Characters major characters are Holden Caulfield, Ackley, Stradlater, Phoebe\n\n9) Minor Characters Jane Gallagher, Sally Hayes, Mr Spencer, Carl Luce\n\n10) Themes : the theme of the book is the difficulty of growing up when you feel isolated and victimized.\n\n11) Symbols and Motifs symbols include the red hunting hat, the carousel in the park, the museum that Holden visits as a child then again as a young adult, the ducks in Central Park.\n\n12) Plot Overview, Chronologically, Including the Setting and Movement from Place to Place (Be Brief! Three to five sentences!) Holden Caulfield is at a prep school in Pennsylvania that he has been kicked out so he moves to New York City into a hotel. He goes to a play and a movie and ice-skating and a few bars in an attempt to meet up with people and not be so lonely eventually he is institutionalized\n\n13) What is Most Stunning about this Book the children in this book seem to live independently from adults. That he can maneuver through New York City alone, grab cabs, drink at bars, go to plays without any adults thinking this is unusual behavior showcases his isolation, because even though he is in a city of 10 million people he feels utterly alone.\n\n14) A Quote of Less than Ten Words to Memorize sex is something I just don't understand, I swear to God I don't chapter 9\n\n1) Title. Working or Alternative Titles Pride and Prejudice\n\n2) Author Jane Austen\n\n3) Date of Publication 1813\n\n4) Genre comedy\n\n5) Writing Techniques Jane Austin uses satire and wit to make fun of both poor and rich people in the book\n\n6) The Setting and How It Contributes to the Drama or Atmosphere the setting is a huge part of the plot of the book I would argue it is even a character in the book. The huge houses actually have names. Elizabeth lives in Longbourn, Darcy lives in Pemberly. Even though the family has to look for husbands for five children they think of themselves as very poor because they do not actually own the house they live in. The atmosphere in Pemberly should be cold and distant but it's not because it is where Darcy lives.\n\n7) Central Conflict and How It Develops and Resolves. What is the climax? Related Minor Conflicts The central conflict of the story is the misunderstanding between Jane and Darcy. Darcy believes Jane is beneath her and Jane is too stubborn to realize she actually loves Darcy. The climax of the book is when Darcy asks Jane to marry him. The minor conflicts are Charlotte marrying Mr. Collins, Elizabeth's mom trying to marry off all of her daughters, Bingley's family coming between Jane and himself, Lady Catherine being a big gossip and arrogant jerk in society.\n\n8) Major Characters Elizabeth Bennett, Fitzwilliam Darcy, Jane Bennett, Charles Bingley, Mr. and Mrs. Bennett\n\n9) Minor Characters Lydia Bennet, Mr. Collins, Lady Catherine DeBourgh, Wickham\n\n10) Themes Jane Austen doesn't spare anybody's feelings she is equally hard on Mr. Bennett, Mrs. Bennett Lady Catherine and Darcy. The theme is don't let your pride stand in your own way and a path to finding happiness and love\n\n11) Symbols and Motifs there are not very many symbols in the book. The wealthy people have a lot of fancy items like China and horse-drawn carriages.\n\n12) Plot Overview, Chronologically, Including the Setting and Movement from Place to Place (Be Brief! Three to five sentences!) Mrs. Bennett once her five daughters to marry rich men. Three of her daughters end up getting married in the book. Two daughters married very wealthy man and the third marries a soldier who is the villain in the book. There are many misunderstandings in the book about wealth and power but it all works out for the best and the heroes of the book find true love.\n\n13) What is Most Stunning about this Book. The most stunning thing about this book is how funny it is, how funny it has remained for over 100 years. Very little is lost to time in this book it is truly timeless.\n\n14) A Quote of Less than Ten Words to Memorize Mary wished to say something very sensible, but knew not how. Page 7"}
{"Catcher in the Rye": "1) Title. Working or Alternative Titles Catcher in the Rye\n\n2) Author JD Salinger\n\n3) Date of Publication 1951\n\n4) Genre Coming of age story, literary realism\n\n5) Writing Techniques First person narration\n\n6) The Setting and How It Contributes to the Drama or Atmosphere The setting is a boys prep school in Pennsylvania called Pencey Prep and later New York City. The boys prep school is filled with homosexual overtones and phonies. New York City although it is filled with people holding cannot manage to find anyone to spend time with.\n\n7) Central Conflict and How It Develops and Resolves. What is the climax? Related Minor Conflicts the major conflict in the story is Holden Caulfield being kicked out of school and slowly having a nervous breakdown. It develops with Holden leaving school and making a series of bad decisions over a long weekend. It is resolved when Holden is institutionalized.\n\n8) Major Characters major characters are Holden Caulfield, Ackley, Stradlater, Phoebe\n\n9) Minor Characters Jane Gallagher, Sally Hayes, Mr Spencer, Carl Luce\n\n10) Themes : Themes include a coming-of-age story and the fake reality adults live in compared to the reality that children live in.\n\n11) Symbols and Motifs symbols include the red hunting hat, the carousel in the park, the museum that Holden visits as a child then again as a young adult, the ducks in the pond and the fish in Central Park.\n\n12) Plot Overview, Chronologically, Including the Setting and Movement from Place to Place (Be Brief! Three to five sentences!) Holden Caulfield is at a prep school and has been kicked out, he leaves school and decides to live alone in New York City for a few days until he is forced to face his parents. He is very lonely and manic and searches for someone to hang out with and talk to so he stays up and doesn't sleep for days on end and has a series of interactions with people and eventually meets up with his sister who convinces him not to run away and at the end of the book he is hospitalized because of his nervous breakdown.\n\n13) What is Most Stunning about this Book is amazing that no adults in this book attempt to help Holden or even realize that he is on a manic psycho trip waiting for his nervous breakdown to take him over and even though he gives lots of notice and red flags that he is in trouble they continue to shuffle him around from place to place and school to school without actually helping him.\n\n14) A Quote of Less than Ten Words to Memorize this is my people shooting hat page 22\n\n1) Title. Working or Alternative Titles Pride and Prejudice\n\n2) Author Jane Austen\n\n3) Date of Publication 1796\n\n4) Genre comedy\n\n5) Writing Techniques Jane Austin uses satire and comedy to write about very serious matters. Elizabeth Bennett uses cutting words to portray how unhappy she is and is very prejudice against wealthy people.\n\n6) The Setting and How It Contributes to the Drama or Atmosphere the book is all about the setting. The poor country family is actually very middle-class because they have servants as well but they consider themselves poor because they don't live in a gigantic mansion like Darcy or Lady Katherine and they feel very poor in comparison.\n\n7) Central Conflict and How It Develops and Resolves. What is the climax? Related Minor Conflicts\n\nThe central conflict in the book is the five daughters need to marry because they will lose their house if they do not settle well with husbands because they had only girls nobody stands to inherit the house when the father dies. The climax of the book is when Darcy asks Elizabeth to marry him. Minor conflicts include Bingley and Jane trying to get together and Lidia marrying Wickham\n\n8) Major Characters Elizabeth Bennett, Fitzwilliam Darcy, Jane Bennett, Charles Bingley, Mr. and Mrs. Bennett\n\n9) Minor Characters Lydia Bennet, Mr. Collins, Lady Catherine DeBourgh, Wickham\n\n10) Themes Jane Austen writes about the class differences in England and the unfairness of it all.\n\n11) Symbols and Motifs the upper class being rude and the lower class being hard-working and not being able to get ahead is an ongoing motif.\n\n12) Plot Overview, Chronologically, Including the Setting and Movement from Place to Place (Be Brief! Three to five sentences!) The story begins in Hertfordshire the town Elizabeth is from where a family with five girls lives when a wealthy man who rents the house next-door two of the five girls marry the wealthy man and his friend and one daughter marries a Playboy a soldier and nearly brings disgrace to the family but it all ends happy. Elizabeth moves to Derbyshire to live with her husband Darcy.\n\n13) What is Most Stunning about this Book is most stunning in this book that there are still women in foreign countries that are second-class citizens or maybe even third class after the donkeys. It is amazing after so many years that women still struggle to own property in their own right without needing a man.\n\n14) A Quote of Less than Ten Words to Memorize From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will never see you again if you do not marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again if you do.\" (97)"}
{"Holden Caulfield and Hamlet": "Holden Caulfield and Hamlet have both lost someone precious to them, and are dealing with deep depression. Holden deals with his depression by pretending it doesn't exist. Holden blames everyone else in the world for things that are happening to him without realizing that so many of life's it falls are his own fault. Hamlet is so depressed he is asking himself whether or not it would be easier to simply die. In his famous to be or not to be speech he is considering whether it is worth it to grunt and sweat under a weary life or to die in that sleep of death what dreams may come. Holden Caulfield doesn't have life or death questions the cousins he is manic enough not to realize what a spiral of depression and anxiety his life has become.\n\nHolden and Hamlet both see humans as weak who think only for themselves, lie, cheat, and embellish their stories to look better towards others. J. D Salinger and Shakespeare both wrote a story following a narrator who is untrustworthy. Holden and Hamlet also suffer from not being supported from those around them leaving them to slowly become crazy. Holden's parents shuffle him between boarding schools and in Hamlet Ophelia lives every time her mouth is open.\n\nHolden obsesses over every phony interaction he sees. After entering Ernie's bar Holden instantly starts the phony call out. He spots that you can't see the piano player's hands but you can look at the giant mirror to see his big old face. he was putting all these dumb, show-offy ripples in the high notes (pg 84). Holden then looks around and looks at the crowd as they go mad (pg 84). Holden almost gets sick from the whole event, after noticing the lie that the whole bar is, in Holden words it is a phony. Holden reacts by wanting to buy a drink for ol Ernie. If Ernie ever did show up for that drink Holden would of called him on the phony playing, and lying to all the people in the crowd. Hamlet uses the line Thus conscience does make cowards of us all, compare this to Ernie who cannot even play a piano to a crowd. Hamlet also believes in calling out phonies when he tells Ophelia get thee to a nunnery he is really calling her a slut.\n\nBoth Hamlet and Holden have lost a loved one. Not being able to finally see Allie dead Holden has a lot of sadness packed inside of him, and throughout the book he will randomly cry, he could just be going crazy. It has permanently affected how he will act, always feeling like he should be dead, he was not worthy to live but rather sacrifice his life to let Allie live on. Holden talks to his dead brother telling him to go home and get his bike (98) acting as if he is still alive and can hear him. Holden makes increasingly bad decisions because he cannot deal with his sadness over his brother's death.\n\nThe irrational behavior of both Hamlet and Holden can be attributed to mental illness and the paralyzing effects of over analyzing every situation in their life without taking any action to stop. Holden ends up in an asylum. Hamlet has a better handle on his existence and realizes that we are arrant knaves, meaning nobody can really be trusted."}
